---
layout: post
title: Work
---



Clarity, purpose, freedom, autonomy, mastery 


---

It takes years to become a great engineer, designer, writer, painter.

But it only takes days to become communicative, reliable, and nice to be around — which will put you above 90% of your peers.

---


Not all costs are financial. Time, attention, mental and emotional energy are much more valuable


---

Not all feedback is equally relevant

Take another perspective 

---

What pain do you want in your life? What are you willing to struggle for?

The question is, “What pain do you want to sustain?” Not “What do you want to enjoy?” 

Don’t think about how proud you would be to run a marathon. Question whether you like running.

---

Follow your inner drive yet do not hastily give all till nothing left 

Ignore the rat race 

---

Do business with people you like. It’s great.


---

Short periods of intense work 

for a good reason and a clear goal

followed by high quality recreation 

---

If you’re good at something, never do it for free.

Your Professional Decline Is Coming (Much) Sooner Than You Think

Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion. - Parkinson’s Law

Goldilocks zone, The right level of challenge 

---

looking from other's perpectives

in the aggregate unseen details become visible 

save some easy tasks 

understand what you are doing 

divide projects into modules with definite owners

Reliability is paying attention 

Mark of strength is not to take yourself too seriously


### Praise & Credit

It is amazing what you can accomplish if you do not care who gets credit.

The attribution of praise or credit can be the source of such dysfunction

A leader is also a story teller, you speak for your team, share their stories, achievements, and pain points 

## Egoless  

Understand and accept that you will make mistakes. 

Consult with people 

Treat people who know less than you with respect, deference, and patience 

Let go of anger and impatience


## The Pragmatic Programmer

define requirements well from the start

estimate with due diligence 

keep a log 

do not make promises 

under promise, over deliver 

Gently exceed expectations

Know when to start, wait, and finish 

Take frequent short breaks 

Take notes 

don't rely heavily on anything 

choose good tools and know them well


