---
layout: post
title: Skill with People  
tags: philosophy
category: thoughts
---

* there is something all people need, and that is to be heard.

* Each person you are talking to or walking by is as important to themselves as you are to yourself. 

* be kind, not clever.

* If you empathise, it's genuine, and so called people-skills will emerge naturally.

* Don't think or judge, just listen.

* People generally see what they look for, and hear what they listen for.


## speech 

> The most important thing in communication is to hear what isn’t being said. - Peter Drucker

* we are terrible at mind-reading. 

* never speak of what you do not know.

* Asking specific questions will separate the truths from the lies.

* Understand people's unstated motivations

* saying exactly what’s on your mind isn’t always a virtue.


> People will often think they understand, 
and they’ll say they understand, 
but then their actions show that it just ain’t so.

## positive 

* Put sunshine get sunshine, Put storm get blizzard 

* People are 100X more sensitive to negativity than positivity.

* Accept people as they are.

* Be impeccable with your word.

* Don't take anything personally.

* Don't make assumptions.

* Always do your best.

## anger 

* The satisfaction of a little rage is never worth the cost.

* Is it really worth getting angry?

* Pick your battles, and only engage in conflict when it’s truly important.


## Praise

* must be sincere 

* Praise the act not the person

* Make it specific pinpoint it 

* Gain a habit of noticing and praising positive things 

* Giving is more joyful than receiving 

* give a lot of honest compliments

* I am trying to give glowing, public praise to the work and behavior I want to see more of, rather than complain about what I want to see less.


## Criticism

* Must be in absolute privacy 

* it's the act not the people 

* give a solution, if you say what is wrong tell also what is right 

* Only one criticism per offence 

* Start and finish on a friendly note 

## Influence

* Don't think they like what you like or want what you want 

* Find out what they are after, what they like 

* After that you can talk their language 

## Agree 

* Tell when you agree

* Be positive 

* Admit when you are wrong 

* Arguing is the poorest thing 

* Defuse fighters by refusing to fight 

* disagree politely, convincingly, and respectfully.


## Listen

* Look at the person 

* Lean towards the speaker 

* Ask open ended questions 

* Don't change subjects abruptly

* Don't interrupt

* Be kind

## Convince 

* Let somebody else send the message for you, eg. My past employer gives that feedback, my neighbor says 

* Relate success stories 

* Quote people

* Cite facts and stats 

* Give them reasons to say yes to you 

* Give a choice between a yes and another yes 

## Make people feel important 

* Recognition and appreciation are basic human needs 

* Pause before you answer them 

* Acknowledge people waiting you 

* Pay attention to everyone in a group 

## Thank 

* Be sincere

* Say it clearly and distinctly

* Eye contact 

* Thank by name, thanks vs thanks Jessica 

* Watch for chances to thank, appreciate, praise 

## Skillful talk 

* Know what you want to say 

* Speak with confidence 

* Speak with authority

* Say it and sit down 

* Be brief be to the point 

* Look at the audience 

* Talk about what they are interested in 

* Tell them what they want to hear 

* Just talk naturally, don't worry about every little detail 

## How to make a good impression?

* If you want respect you should signal that you deserve it 

* Be proud of yourself, what you do, your past, where you work. 

* Don't apologize for your situation in life 

* You are what you are 

* Handle yourself with pride and respect 

* Say only what you mean 

* Believe things that you say 

* if you don't mean or don't believe, don't say it 

* Show enthusiasm 

* Enthusiasm is contagious

* Don't be over anxious, most things are not worth to be anxious, relax 

* Don't knock 

* Tell something good or say nothing 

* Be shrewd be smooth 

## Set the mood

* Start with a open positive happy mood 

* Start by smiling 

* Relaxed comfortable body language 

* Good eye contact 


---


* people are primarily interested in themselves

* they want to feel important 

* recognition and appreciation are basic needs

* pause before answering

* people like to be agreed

* dislike to be disagreed

* people will never forget how you made them feel.

* poorest way is arguing

* way to handle fighters = refuse to fight 

* don't assume they like what you like, or want what you want

* find out what they are after

* speak through 3rd persons, quote others, tell stories, cite facts and stats

* praise must be sincere, specific and for the action not the person

* say kind things, be humble, be kind

* giving = joy 

* if you tell the wrong way, tell the right way, too

* criticism must be in absolute privacy, for the act, not the person 

* be sincere 

* say it clearly 

* say it distinctly 

* thank by name

* watch for things to appreciate

* being kind, smiling, appreciation = easiest way to create value

* say only what you mean 

* believe what you say 

* enthusiasm is contagious, show it 

* say sth. good or say nothing

* if you dont know what to say, dont open your mouth 

* speak with confidence

* say it simply 

* be brief

* be to the point 

* tell what they wanna hear 

* knowledge is nothing, doing is everything

--- 


* People are both curious and afraid of new things. Thus a familiar thing in an original setting is interesting.

* The more available something is, the less we want it

* people want responsibility, respect, and freedom.

* The world we have created is a product of our thinking; it cannot be changed without changing our thinking.

* humility, adaptability, long time horizons, skepticism of popularity and money 

* Your time is limited, so don’t waste it living someone else’s life.

* Relentlessly prune bullshit, don't wait to do things that matter, and savor the time you have. That's what you do when life is short.

> “If you want to know what a given society believes in, look at what its largest buildings are devoted to.” — Joseph Campbell

## being vulnerable vs insecurity

* Vulnerable: exposed, wide open, susceptible to getting hurt.

* Insecure: afraid, filled with doubt, not confident.

* It takes courage and confidence to allow yourself to be vulnerable.

* The more you admit your faults and shortcomings, the more people will like you. 
  
* Being able to admit when you're wrong is a wonderfully attractive quality and gets you a lot of legitimacy. It's endearing.

## Confidence, arrogance, humility 

* Arrogance is a weakness.

* Don’t ever, ever, ever brag. It never comes off well. Humility wins.

* Confident people are humble because they don't have to prove anything


