---
layout: post
title: Dangerous
tags: quotes

--- 
It's a dangerous business, Frodo, going out your door. You step onto the road, and if you don't keep your feet, there's no knowing where you might be swept off to.

---
I dream my painting and I paint my dream.

---
Nobody ever figures out what life is all about, and it doesn't matter. Explore the world. Nearly everything is really interesting if you go into it deeply enough.

---
When a man is denied the right to live the life he believes in, he has no choice but to become an outlaw.

---
What are men to rocks and mountains?

---
Look again at that dot. That's here. That's home. That's us. On it everyone you love, everyone you know, everyone you ever heard of, every human being who ever was, lived out their lives. The aggregate of our joy and suffering, thousands of confident religions, ideologies, and economic doctrines, every hunter and forager, every hero and coward, every creator and destroyer of civilization, every king and peasant, every young couple in love, every mother and father, hopeful child, inventor and explorer, every teacher of morals, every corrupt politician, every "superstar," every "supreme leader," every saint and sinner in the history of our species lived there-on a mote of dust suspended in a sunbeam.<br/><br/>The Earth is a very small stage in a vast cosmic arena.  Think of the endless cruelties visited by the inhabitants of one corner of this pixel on the scarcely distinguishable inhabitants of some other corner, how frequent their misunderstandings, how eager they are to kill one another, how fervent their hatreds.  Think of the rivers of blood spilled by all those generals and emperors so that, in glory and triumph, they could become the momentary masters of a fraction of a dot.<br/><br/>Our posturings, our imagined self-importance, the delusion that we have some privileged position in the Universe, are challenged by this point of pale light. Our planet is a lonely speck in the great enveloping cosmic dark. In our obscurity, in all this vastness, there is no hint that help will come from elsewhere to save us from ourselves.<br/><br/>The Earth is the only world known so far to harbor life. There is nowhere else, at least in the near future, to which our species could migrate. Visit, yes. Settle, not yet.  Like it or not, for the moment the Earth is where we make our stand.<br/><br/>It has been said that astronomy is a humbling and character-building experience. There is perhaps no better demonstration of the folly of human conceits than this distant image of our tiny world. To me, it underscores our responsibility to deal more kindly with one another, and to preserve and cherish the pale blue dot, the only home we've ever known.

---
To burn with desire and keep quiet about it is the greatest punishment we can bring on ourselves.

---
I, myself, am made entirely of flaws, stitched together with good intentions.

---
Education is an admirable thing, but it is well to remember from time to time that nothing that is worth knowing can be taught.

---
Some birds are not meant to be caged, that's all.  Their feathers are too bright, their songs too sweet and wild.  So you let them go, or when you open the cage to feed them they somehow fly out past you.  And the part of you that knows it was wrong to imprison them in the first place rejoices, but still, the place where you live is that much more drab and empty for their departure.

---
What is hell? I maintain that it is the suffering of being unable to love.

---
So be sure when you step, Step with care and great tact. And remember that life's A Great Balancing Act. And will you succeed? Yes! You will, indeed! (98 and ¾ percent guaranteed) Kid, you'll move mountains.

---
I will not let anyone walk through my mind  with their dirty feet.

---
I never change, I simply become more myself.

---
Forever is composed of nows.

---
If you're losing your soul and you know it, then you've still got a soul left to lose

---
If she's amazing, she won't be easy. If she's easy, she won't be amazing. If she's worth it, you wont give up. If you give up, you're not worthy. ... Truth is, everybody is going to hurt you; you just gotta find the ones worth suffering for.

---
I cannot remember the books I've read any more than the meals I have eaten; even so, they have made me.

---
Confront the dark parts of yourself, and work to banish them with illumination and forgiveness. Your willingness to wrestle with your demons will cause your angels to sing.

---
We are all atheists about most of the gods that humanity has ever believed in. Some of us just go one god further.

---
You don't remember what happened. What you remember becomes what happened.

---
How vain it is to sit down to write when you have not stood up to live.

---
When someone leaves, it's because someone else is about to arrive.

---
Once you have tasted flight, you will forever walk the earth with your eyes turned skyward, for there you have been, and there you will always long to return.

---
there are worse things<br/>than being alone<br/>but it often takes<br/>decades to realize this<br/>and most often when you do<br/>it's too late<br/>and there's nothing worse<br/>than too late

---
This is your life and its ending one moment at a time.

---
I am not sure that I exist, actually. I am all the writers that I have read, all the people that I have met, all the women that I have loved; all the cities I have visited.

---
The one thing that doesn't abide by majority rule is a person's conscience.

---
A classic is a book that has never finished saying what it has to say.

---
There are no facts, only interpretations.

---
Judge a man by his questions rather than by his answers.

---
Goodbye," said the fox. "And now here is my secret, a very simple secret: It is only with the heart that one can see rightly; what is essential is invisible to the eye.

---
Learn what is to be taken seriously and laugh at the rest.

---
An intellectual says a simple thing in a hard way. An artist says a hard thing in a simple way.

---
Even the darkest night will end and the sun will rise.

---
People, I have discovered, are layers and layers of secrets. You believe you know them, that you understand them, but their motives are always hidden from you, buried in their own hearts. You will never know them, but sometimes you decide to trust them.

---
Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds.

---
Sanity and happiness are an impossible combination.

---
Don't say you don't have enough time. You have exactly the same number of hours per day that were given to Helen Keller, Pasteur, Michelangelo, Mother Teresa, Leonardo da Vinci, Thomas Jefferson, and Albert Einstein.

---
To see a World in a Grain of Sand <br/>And a Heaven in a Wild Flower, <br/>Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand <br/>And Eternity in an hour.

---
It's enough for me to be sure that you and I exist at this moment.

---
If you have two friends in your lifetime, you're lucky. If you have one good friend, you're more than lucky.

---
Live to the point of tears.

---
Remember that wherever your heart is, there you will find your treasure.

---
What Is Love? I have met in the streets a very poor young man who was in love. His hat was old, his coat worn, the water passed through his shoes and the stars through his soul

---
When you stop expecting people to be perfect, you can like them for who they are.

---
It is a curious thought, but it is only when you see people looking ridiculous that you realize just how much you love them.  

---
People who claim that they're evil are usually no worse than the rest of us... It's people who claim that they're good, or any way  better than the rest of us, that you have to be wary of.

---
You're off to Great Places!<br/>Today is your day!<br/>Your mountain is waiting,<br/>So... get on your way!

---
The most painful thing is losing yourself in the process of loving someone too much, and forgetting that you are special too.

---
Poets have been mysteriously silent on the subject of cheese.

---
Among other things, you'll find that you're not the first person who was ever confused and frightened and even sickened by human behavior. You're by no means alone on that score, you'll be excited and stimulated to know. Many, many men have been just as troubled morally and spiritually as you are right now. Happily, some of them kept records of their troubles. You'll learn from them—if you want to. Just as someday, if you have something to offer, someone will learn something from you. It's a beautiful reciprocal arrangement. And it isn't education. It's history. It's poetry.

---
There is nothing noble in being superior to your fellow man; true nobility is being superior to your former self.

---
Many people lose the small joys in the hope for the big happiness.

---
I fell in love with her courage, her sincerity, and her flaming self respect. And it's these things I'd believe in, even if the whole world indulged in wild suspicions that she wasn't all she should be. I love her and it is the beginning of everything.

---
After nourishment, shelter and companionship, stories are the thing we need most in the world.

---
You never fail until you stop trying.

---
The true soldier fights not because he hates what is in front of him, but because he loves what is behind him.

---
What would men be without women? Scarce, sir...mighty scarce.

---
If you obey all of the rules, you miss all of the fun.

---
Life is to be enjoyed, not endured

---
If you want to forget something or someone, never hate it, or never hate him/her. Everything and everyone that you hate is engraved upon your heart; if you want to let go of something, if you want to forget, you cannot hate.

---
Success is liking yourself, liking what you do, and liking how you do it.

---
I loved her against reason, against promise, against peace, against hope, against happiness, against all discouragement that could be.

---
Do I not destroy my enemies when I make them my friends?

---
but for my own part, if a book is well written, I always find it too short.

---
Yesterday I was clever, so I wanted to change the world.  Today I am wise, so I am changing myself.

---
Knowing others is intelligence;<br/>knowing yourself is true wisdom.<br/>Mastering others is strength; <br/>mastering yourself is true power.

---
Why didn't I learn to treat everything like it was the last time. My greatest regret was how much I believed in the future.

---
When the power of love overcomes the love of power, the world will know peace.

---
Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves, vanity to what we would have others think of us.

---
Three things in human life are important: the first is to be kind; the second is to be kind; and the third is to be kind.

---
My life amounts to no more than one drop in a limitless ocean. Yet what is any ocean, but a multitude of drops?

---
The paradox of our time in history is that we have taller buildings but shorter tempers, wider Freeways, but narrower viewpoints.  We spend more, but have less, we buy more, but enjoy less. We have bigger houses and smaller families, more conveniences, but less time.  We have more degrees but less sense, more knowledge, but less judgment, more experts, yet more problems, more medicine, but less wellness.<br/><br/>We drink too much, smoke too much, spend too recklessly, laugh too little, drive too fast, get too angry, stay up too late, get up too tired, read too little, watch TV too much, and pray too seldom.  We have multiplied our possessions, but reduced our values.  We talk too much, love too seldom, and hate too often.<br/><br/>We've learned how to make a living, but not a life. We've added years to life not life to years.  We've been all the way to the moon and back, but have trouble crossing the street to meet a new neighbor.  We conquered outer space but not inner space.  We've done larger things, but not better things.<br/><br/>We've cleaned up the air, but polluted the soul. We've conquered the atom, but not our prejudice.  We write more, but learn less.  We plan more, but accomplish less.  We've learned to rush, but not to wait.  We build more computers to hold more information, to produce more copies than ever, but we communicate less and less.<br/><br/>These are the times of fast foods and slow digestion, big men and small character, steep profits and shallow relationships.<br/><br/>These are the days of two incomes but more divorce, fancier houses, but broken homes.  These are days of quick trips, disposable diapers, throwaway morality, one night stands, overweight bodies, and pills that do everything from cheer, to quiet, to kill.  It is a time when there is much in the showroom window and nothing in the stockroom.  A time when technology can bring this letter to you, and a time when you can choose either to share this insight, or to just hit delete...<br/><br/>Remember, to spend some time with your loved ones, because they are not going to be around forever.  Remember, say a kind word to someone who looks up to you in awe, because that little person soon will grow up and leave your side.<br/><br/>Remember, to give a warm hug to the one next to you, because that is the only treasure you can give with your heart and it doesn't cost a cent.<br/><br/>Remember, to say, "I love you" to your partner and your loved ones, but most of all mean it.  A kiss and an embrace will mend hurt when it comes from deep inside of you.<br/><br/>Remember to hold hands and cherish the moment for someday that person might not be there again.  Give time to love, give time to speak! And give time to share the precious thoughts in your mind.

---

The scariest moment is always just before you start.

---
The more I see, the less I know for sure.

---
The Chinese use two brush strokes to write the word 'crisis.' One brush stroke stands for danger; the other for opportunity. In a crisis, be aware of the danger--but recognize the opportunity.

---
The most wasted of all days is one without laughter.

---
We all have our time machines, don't we. Those that take us back are memories...And those that carry us forward, are dreams.

---
To go wrong in one's own way is better than to go right in someone else's.

---
We know what we are, but not what we may be.

---
There comes a time when one must take a position that is neither safe, nor politic, nor popular, but he must take it because conscience tells him it is right.

---
It's not the load that breaks you down, it's the way you carry it.

---
Dare to Be<br/><br/>When a new day begins, dare to smile gratefully.<br/><br/>When there is darkness, dare to be the first to shine a light.<br/><br/>When there is injustice, dare to be the first to condemn it.<br/><br/>When something seems difficult, dare to do it anyway.<br/><br/>When life seems to beat you down, dare to fight back.<br/><br/>When there seems to be no hope, dare to find some.<br/><br/>When you’re feeling tired, dare to keep going.<br/><br/>When times are tough, dare to be tougher.<br/><br/>When love hurts you, dare to love again.<br/><br/>When someone is hurting, dare to help them heal.<br/><br/>When another is lost, dare to help them find the way.<br/><br/>When a friend falls, dare to be the first to extend a hand.<br/><br/>When you cross paths with another, dare to make them smile.<br/><br/>When you feel great, dare to help someone else feel great too.<br/><br/>When the day has ended, dare to feel as you’ve done your best.<br/><br/>Dare to be the best you can –<br/><br/>At all times, Dare to be!

---
there is a loneliness in this world so great<br/>that you can see it in the slow movement of<br/>the hands of a clock.<br/><br/>people so tired<br/>mutilated<br/>either by love or no love.<br/><br/>people just are not good to each other<br/>one on one.<br/><br/>the rich are not good to the rich<br/>the poor are not good to the poor.<br/><br/>we are afraid.<br/><br/>our educational system tells us<br/>that we can all be<br/>big-ass winners.<br/><br/>it hasn't told us<br/>about the gutters<br/>or the suicides.<br/><br/>or the terror of one person<br/>aching in one place<br/>alone<br/><br/>untouched<br/>unspoken to<br/><br/>watering a plant.

---
Everybody is identical in their secret unspoken belief that way deep down they are different from everyone else.

---
I read a book one day and my whole life was changed.

---
Everything tells me that I am about to make a wrong decision, but making mistakes is just part of life. What does the world want of me? Does it want me to take no risks, to go back to where I came from because I didn't have the courage to say "yes" to life?

---
The most important kind of freedom is to be what you really are. You trade in your reality for a role. You trade in your sense for an act. You give up your ability to feel, and in exchange, put on a mask. There can't be any large-scale revolution until there's a personal revolution, on an individual level. It's got to happen inside first.

---
Everyone has talent. What's rare is the courage to follow it to the dark places where it leads.

---
A painter should begin every canvas with a wash of black, because all things in nature are dark except where exposed by the light.

---
The Guide says there is an art to flying", said Ford, "or rather a knack. The knack lies in learning how to throw yourself at the ground and miss.

---
The most beautiful people we have known are those who have known defeat, known suffering, known struggle, known loss, and have found their way out of the depths. These persons have an appreciation, a sensitivity, and an understanding of life that fills them with compassion, gentleness, and a deep loving concern. Beautiful people do not just happen.

---
It is good to love many things, for therein lies the true strength, and whosoever loves much performs much, and can accomplish much, and what is done in love is well done.

---
I have heard there are troubles of more than one kind. Some come from ahead and some come from behind. But I've bought a big bat. I'm all ready you see. Now my troubles are going to have troubles with me!

---
Sometimes people don't want to hear the truth because they don't want their illusions destroyed.

---
Do you think I am an automaton? — a machine without feelings? and can bear to have my morsel of bread snatched from my lips, and my drop of living water dashed from my cup? Do you think, because I am poor, obscure, plain, and little, I am soulless and heartless? You think wrong! — I have as much soul as you — and full as much heart! And if God had gifted me with some beauty and much wealth, I should have made it as hard for you to leave me, as it is now for me to leave you. I am not talking to you now through the medium of custom, conventionalities, nor even of mortal flesh: it is my spirit that addresses your spirit; just as if both had passed through the grave, and we stood at God's feet, equal — as we are!

---
Reading one book is like eating one potato chip.

---
Pain is temporary. Quitting lasts forever.

---
You know, one of the tragedies of real life is that there is no background music.

---
There may be times when we are powerless to prevent injustice, but there must never be a time when we fail to protest.

---
Laters, baby.

---
It's like everyone tells a story about themselves inside their own head. Always. All the time. That story makes you what you are. We build ourselves out of that story.

---
All grown-ups were once children... but only few of them remember it.

---
Worry does not empty tomorrow of its sorrow, it empties today of its strength.

---
Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?"<br/>"That depends a good deal on where you want to get to."<br/>"I don't much care where –"<br/>"Then it doesn't matter which way you go.

---
Clouds come floating into my life, no longer to carry rain or usher storm, but to add color to my sunset sky.

---
The truth is, unless you let go, unless you forgive yourself, unless you forgive the situation, unless you realize that the situation is over, you cannot move forward.

---
The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.

---
You may not control all the events that happen to you, but you can decide not to be reduced by them.

---
Life should not be a journey to the grave with the intention of arriving safely in a pretty and well preserved body, but rather to skid in broadside in a cloud of smoke, thoroughly used up, totally worn out, and loudly proclaiming "Wow! What a Ride!

---
Cinderella? Snow White? What's that? An illness?

---
Art is the lie that enables us to realize the truth.

---
If you go home with somebody, and they don't have books, don't fuck 'em!

---
I will not say: do not weep; for not all tears are an evil.

---
The journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.

---
Some cause happiness wherever they go; others whenever they go.

---
It is more fun to talk with someone who doesn't use long, difficult words but rather short, easy words like "What about lunch?

---
That's the problem with drinking, I thought, as I poured myself a drink. If something bad happens you drink in an attempt to forget; if something good happens you drink in order to celebrate; and if nothing happens you drink to make something happen.

---
Death must be so beautiful. To lie in the soft brown earth, with the grasses waving above one's head, and listen to silence. To have no yesterday, and no tomorrow. To forget time, to forgive life, to be at peace.

---
Tell the truth, or someone will tell it for you.

---
Simplicity, patience, compassion.<br/>These three are your greatest treasures.<br/>Simple in actions and thoughts, you return to the source of being.<br/>Patient with both friends and enemies,<br/>you accord with the way things are.<br/>Compassionate toward yourself,<br/>you reconcile all beings in the world.

---
Think left and think right and think low and think high. Oh, the thinks you can think up if only you try!

---
It is amazing how complete is the delusion that beauty is goodness.

---
What you seek is seeking you.

---
There is nothing in the world so irresistibly contagious as laughter and good humor.

---
God has no religion.

---
Let no man pull you so low as to hate him.

---
Everyone seems to have a clear idea of how other people should lead their lives, but none about his or her own.

---
Begin at the beginning," the King said, very gravely, "and go on till you come to the end: then stop.

---
Life has no meaning. Each of us has meaning and we bring it to life. It is a waste to be asking the question when you are the answer.

---
If you look for perfection, you'll never be content.

---
The world as we have created it is a process of our thinking. It cannot be changed without changing our thinking.

---
Never say goodbye because goodbye means going away and going away means forgetting.

---
I do not fear death. I had been dead for billions and billions of years before I was born, and had not suffered the slightest inconvenience from it.

---
You can spend minutes, hours, days, weeks, or even months over-analyzing a situation; trying to put the pieces together, justifying what could've, would've happened... or you can just leave the pieces on the floor and move the fuck on.

---
The truth does not change according to our ability to stomach it.

---
People generally see what they look for, and hear what they listen for.

---
Be careful of love. It'll twist your brain around and leave you thinking up is down and right is wrong.

---
A brave man acknowledges the strength of others.

---
War is what happens when language fails.

---
How many slams in an old screen door? Depends how loud you shut it. How many slices in a bread? Depends how thin you cut it. How much good inside a day? Depends how good you live 'em. How much love inside a friend? Depends how much you give 'em.

---
Sometimes our light goes out, but is blown again into instant flame by an encounter with another human being.

---
The problem with the world is that the intelligent people are full of doubts, while the stupid ones are full of confidence.

---
There are three things all wise men fear: the sea in storm, a night with no moon, and the anger of a gentle man.

---
Don't judge each day by the harvest you reap but by the seeds that you plant.

---
Who said nights were for sleep?

---
Why do you go away?  So that you can come back.  So that you can see the place you came from with new eyes and extra colors.  And the people there see you differently, too.  Coming back to where you started is not the same as never leaving.

