---
layout: post
title: I'm not young enough to know everything.
tags: quotes

--- 

The creative adult is the child who has survived.

<br><br>
The saddest people I've ever met in life are the ones who don't care deeply about anything at all. Passion and satisfaction go hand in hand, and without them, any happiness is only temporary, because there's nothing to make it last.

<br><br>
The reasonable man adapts himself to the world: the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man.

<br><br>
Don’t try to make life a mathematics problem with yourself in the center and everything coming out equal.  When you’re good, bad things can still happen.  And if you’re bad, you can still be lucky.

<br><br>
There is more to sex appeal than just measurements. I don't need a bedroom to prove my womanliness. I can convey just as much sex appeal, picking apples off a tree or standing in the rain.

<br><br>
Trying to define yourself is like trying to bite your own teeth.

<br><br>
The world is a dangerous place to live, not because of the people who are evil, but because of the people who don't do anything about it.

<br><br>
No matter what he does, every person on earth plays a central role in the history of the world. And normally he doesn't know it.

<br><br>
A child can teach an adult three things: to be happy for no reason, to always be busy with something, and to know how to demand with all his might that which he desires.

<br><br>
Creativity is intelligence having fun.

<br><br>
These violent delights have violent ends<br/>And in their triump die, like fire and powder<br/>Which, as they kiss, consume

<br><br>
The thing that is really hard, and really amazing, is giving up on being perfect and beginning the work of becoming yourself.

<br><br>
My tongue will tell the anger of my heart, or else my heart concealing it will break.

<br><br>
It's funny how humans can wrap their mind around things and fit them into their version of reality.

<br><br>
If you don't read the newspaper, you're uninformed. If you read the newspaper, you're mis-informed.

<br><br>
Out of suffering have emerged the strongest souls; the most massive characters are seared with scars.

<br><br>
Every one of us is, in the cosmic perspective, precious. If a human disagrees with you, let him live. In a hundred billion galaxies, you will not find another.

<br><br>
The beauty of a woman is not in the clothes she wears, the figure that she carries, or the way she combs her hair. The beauty of a woman is seen in her eyes, because that is the doorway to her heart, the place where love resides. True beauty in a woman is reflected in her soul. It's the caring that she lovingly gives, the passion that she shows & the beauty of a woman only grows with passing years.

<br><br>
Youth can not know how age thinks and feels. But old men are guilty if they forget what it was to be young.

<br><br>
You yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and affection

<br><br>
Always do what is right. It will gratify half of mankind and astound the other.

<br><br>
When I had nothing to lose, I had everything. When I stopped being who I am, I found myself.

<br><br>
We take for granted the very things that most deserve our gratitude.

<br><br>
Everyone is a moon, and has a dark side which he never shows to anybody.

<br><br>
Life is a series of natural and spontaneous changes. Don't resist them; that only creates sorrow. Let reality be reality. Let things flow naturally forward in whatever way they like.

<br><br>
People demand freedom of speech as a compensation for the freedom of thought which they seldom use.

<br><br>
Don't bend; don't water it down; don't try to make it logical; don't edit your own soul according to the fashion. Rather, follow your most intense obsessions mercilessly.

<br><br>
To be, or not to be: that is the question:<br/>Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer<br/>The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,<br/>Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,<br/>And by opposing end them? To die: to sleep;<br/>No more; and by a sleep to say we end<br/>The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks<br/>That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation<br/>Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;<br/>To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;<br/>For in that sleep of death what dreams may come<br/>When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,<br/>Must give us pause: there's the respect<br/>That makes calamity of so long life;<br/>For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,<br/>The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,<br/>The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,<br/>The insolence of office and the spurns<br/>That patient merit of the unworthy takes,<br/>When he himself might his quietus make<br/>With a bare bodkin? who would fardels bear,<br/>To grunt and sweat under a weary life,<br/>But that the dread of something after death,<br/>The undiscover'd country from whose bourn<br/>No traveller returns, puzzles the will<br/>And makes us rather bear those ills we have<br/>Than fly to others that we know not of?<br/>Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;<br/>And thus the native hue of resolution<br/>Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,<br/>And enterprises of great pith and moment<br/>With this regard their currents turn awry,<br/>And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!<br/>The fair Ophelia! Nymph, in thy orisons<br/>Be all my sins remember'd!

<br><br>
When we are tired, we are attacked by ideas we conquered long ago.

<br><br>
I want to grow old without facelifts. I want to have the courage to be loyal to the face I have made.

<br><br>
Never forget what you are, for surely the world will not. Make it your strength. Then it can never be your weakness.

<br><br>
Life isn't finding shelter in the storm.  It's about learning to dance in the rain.

<br><br>
Would it save you a lot of time if I just gave up and went mad now?

<br><br>
You have to know what you stand for, not just what you stand against.

<br><br>
It's been my experience that you can nearly always enjoy things if you make up your mind firmly that you will.

<br><br>
A good traveler has no fixed plans and is not intent on arriving.

<br><br>
Yesterday is gone. Tomorrow has not yet come. We have only today. Let us begin.

<br><br>
When people don't express themselves, they die one piece at a time.

<br><br>
A good book is an event in my life.

<br><br>
Worry never robs tomorrow of its sorrow, but only saps today of its strength.

<br><br>
Love is the absence of judgment.

<br><br>
Let us learn to show our friendship for a man when he is alive and not after he is dead.

<br><br>
We can never judge the lives of others, because each person knows only their own pain and renunciation. It's one thing to feel that you are on the right path, but it's another to think that yours is the only path.

<br><br>
The most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or touched, they are felt with the heart.

<br><br>
A dream you dream alone is only a dream. A dream you dream together is reality.

<br><br>
The best books... are those that tell you what you know already.

<br><br>
I was wise enough never to grow up, while fooling people into believing I had.

<br><br>
If you want to be happy, do not dwell in the past, do not worry about the future, focus on living fully in the present.

<br><br>
You should never be surprised when someone treats you with respect, you should expect it.

<br><br>
Is it so bad, then, to be misunderstood? Pythagoras was misunderstood, and Socrates, and Jesus, and Luther, and Copernicus, and Galileo, and Newton, and every pure and wise spirit that ever took flesh. To be great is to be misunderstood.

<br><br>
I think the reward for conformity is that everyone likes you except yourself.

<br><br>
There ain't no sin and there ain't no virtue. There's just stuff people do.

<br><br>
The worst part of success is trying to find someone who is happy for you.

<br><br>
Ah! There is nothing like staying at home, for real comfort.

<br><br>
You only get one life. It's actually your duty to live it as fully as possible.

<br><br>
Lighthouses don’t go running all over an island looking for boats to save; they just stand there shining.

<br><br>
Some lose all mind and become soul,insane.<br/>some lose all soul and become mind, intellectual.<br/>some lose both and become accepted

<br><br>
A common mistake that people make when trying to design something completely foolproof is to underestimate the ingenuity of complete fools.

<br><br>
Knowledge speaks, but wisdom listens

<br><br>
Art and love are the same thing: It’s the process of seeing yourself in things that are not you.

<br><br>
A woman without a man  is like a fish without a bicycle.

<br><br>
Beauty is only skin deep, but ugly goes clean to the bone.

<br><br>
But in the end one needs more courage to live than to kill himself.

<br><br>
Books are the carriers of civilization...They are companions, teachers, magicians, bankers of the treasures of the mind. Books are humanity in print.

<br><br>
Keep smiling, because life is a beautiful thing and there's so much to smile about.

<br><br>
