---
layout: post
title: Do one thing every day that scares you
tags: quotes
--- 

<br><br>
Do not pity the dead, Harry. Pity the living, and, above all those who live without love.

<br><br>
When one door of happiness closes, another opens; but often we look so long at the closed door that we do not see the one which has been opened for us.

<br><br>
It matters not what someone is born, but what they grow to be.

<br><br>
The difference between genius and stupidity is: genius has its limits.

<br><br>
Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance, you must keep moving.

<br><br>
Love never dies a natural death. It dies because we don't know how to replenish its source. It dies of blindness and errors and betrayals. It dies of illness and wounds; it dies of weariness, of witherings, of tarnishings.

<br><br>
The trouble with having an open mind, of course, is that people will insist on coming along and trying to put things in it.

<br><br>
It is what you read when you don't have to that determines what you will be when you can't help it.

<br><br>
It is impossible to live without failing at something, unless you live so cautiously that you might as well not have lived at all - in which case, you fail by default.

<br><br>
Of course it is happening inside your head, Harry, but why on earth should that mean that it is not real?

<br><br>
Today you are You, that is truer than true. There is no one alive who is Youer than You.

<br><br>
To the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure.

<br><br>
If you want your children to be intelligent, read them fairy tales. If you want them to be more intelligent, read them more fairy tales.

<br><br>
If one cannot enjoy reading a book over and over again, there is no use in reading it at all.

<br><br>
Logic will get you from A to Z; imagination will get you everywhere.

<br><br>
The more that you read, the more things you will know. The more that you learn, the more places you'll go.

<br><br>
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind,<br/>And therefore is winged Cupid painted blind.

<br><br>
Do what you can, with what you have, where you are.

<br><br>
Love all, trust a few, do wrong to none.

<br><br>
You have brains in your head. You have feet in your shoes. You can steer yourself any direction you choose. You're on your own. And you know what you know. And YOU are the one who'll decide where to go...

<br><br>
That which does not kill us makes us stronger.

<br><br>
A reader lives a thousand lives before he dies, said Jojen. The man who never reads lives only one.

<br><br>
It is never too late to be what you might have been.

<br><br>
It takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our friends.

<br><br>
If you judge people, you have no time to love them.

<br><br>
My thoughts are stars I cannot fathom into constellations.

<br><br>
I'm not upset that you lied to me, I'm upset that from now on I can't believe you.

<br><br>
I have always imagined that Paradise will be a kind of library.

<br><br>
We don't see things as they are, we see them as we are.

<br><br>
If you only read the books that everyone else is reading, you can only think what everyone else is thinking.

<br><br>
Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover.

<br><br>
You know you're in love when you can't fall asleep because reality is finally better than your dreams.

<br><br>
Design is really an act of communication, which means having a deep understanding of the person with whom the designer is communicating.

<br><br>
Principles of design:<br/>1. Use both knowledge in the world and knowledge in the head.<br/>2. Simplify the structure of tasks.<br/>3. Make things visible: bridge gulfs between Execution and Evaluation.<br/>4. Get the mappings right.<br/>5. Exploit the power of constraints.<br/>6. Design for error.<br/>7. When all else fails, standardize.

<br><br>
Rule of thumb: if you think something is clever and sophisticated beware-it is probably self-indulgence.

<br><br>
Learning should take place when it is needed, when the learner is interested, not according to some arbitrary, fixed schedule

<br><br>
Good design is actually a lot harder to notice than poor design, in part because good designs fit our needs so well that the design is invisible,

<br><br>
A brilliant solution to the wrong problem can be worse than no solution at all: solve the correct problem.

<br><br>
Fail often, fail fast,

<br><br>
Any time you see signs or labels added to a device, it is an indication of bad design: a simple lock should not require instructions.

<br><br>
What makes something simple or complex? It's not the number of dials or controls or how many features it has: It is whether the person using the device has a good conceptual model of how it operates.

<br><br>
The vicious cycle starts: if you fail at something, you think it is your fault. Therefore you think you can’t do that task. As a result, next time you have to do the task, you believe you can’t, so you don’t even try. The result is that you can’t, just as you thought.

<br><br>
When things go right, people credit their own abilities and intelligence. The onlookers do the reverse. When they see things go well for someone else, they sometimes credit the environment, or luck.

<br><br>
It is easy to design devices that work well when everything goes as planned. The hard and necessary part of design is to make things work well even when things do not go as planned.

<br><br>
A story tells of Henry Ford’s buying scrapped Ford cars and having his engineers disassemble them to see which parts failed and which were still in good shape. Engineers assumed this was done to find the weak parts and make them stronger. Nope. Ford explained that he wanted to find the parts that were still in good shape. The company could save money if they redesigned these parts to fail at the same time as the others.

<br><br>
We must design for the way people behave,<br/>not for how we would wish them to behave.

<br><br>
original ideas are the easy part. Actually producing the idea as a successful product is what is hard.

<br><br>
In design, one of the most difficult activities is to get the specifications right:

<br><br>