---
layout: post
title: Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional.
tags: quotes 

---

It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat.

Do what you feel in your heart to be right – for you’ll be criticized anyway.


If you are going through hell, keep going.

Some people feel the rain. Others just get wet.

Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster. And if you gaze long enough into an abyss, the abyss will gaze back into you.

We're all going to die, all of us, what a circus! That alone should make us love each other but it doesn't. We are terrorized and flattened by trivialities, we are eaten up by nothing.

The best index to a person's character is how he treats people who can't do him any good, and how he treats people who can't fight back.

Never be bullied into silence. Never allow yourself to be made a victim. Accept no one’s definition of your life; define yourself.

You have enemies? Good. That means you've stood up for something, sometime in your life.

It is so hard to leave—until you leave. And then it is the easiest goddamned thing in the world.

Think of all the beauty still left around you and be happy.

The mind is its own place, and in itself can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven..

I am not young enough to know everything.

Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional.

The secret of life, though, is to fall seven times and to get up eight times.

When someone shows you who they are believe them; the first time.

All the world is made of faith, and trust, and pixie dust.

Most people are other people. Their thoughts are someone else's opinions, their lives a mimicry, their passions a quotation.

Don't think or judge, just listen.

Tis better to have loved and lost
Than never to have loved at all.


Do not go gentle into that good night.
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.


You're alive only once, as far as we know, and what could be worse than getting to the end of your life and realizing you hadn't lived it?

I've found that there is always some beauty left -- in nature, sunshine, freedom, in yourself; these can all help you.

you can, you should, and if you’re brave enough to start, you will.


If you pick up a starving dog and make him prosperous he will not bite you. This is the principal difference between a dog and man.

The most common way people give up their power is by thinking they don't have any.

You never know what worse luck your bad luck has saved you from.


Happiness is only real when shared

A ship is safe in harbor, but that's not what ships are for.

Education is the ability to listen to almost anything without losing your temper or your self-confidence.

If you want to tell people the truth, make them laugh, otherwise they'll kill you.

Success is getting what you want, happiness is wanting what you get

You must make a decision that you are going to move on. It wont happen automatically. You will have to rise up and say, ‘I don’t care how hard this is, I don’t care how disappointed I am, I’m not going to let this get the best of me. I’m moving on with my life.

The first draft of anything is shit.

Everybody talks about wanting to change things and help and fix, but ultimately all you can do is fix yourself. And that's a lot. Because if you can fix yourself, it has a ripple effect.


Atticus told me to delete the adjectives and I'd have the facts.

Everyone you will ever meet knows something you don't.

You will do foolish things, but do them with enthusiasm.

