---
layout: post
title: Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional.
tags: quotes 
---

## critic


It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat.

Do what you feel in your heart to be right – for you’ll be criticized anyway.

"Whenever you feel like criticizing any one," he told me, "just remember that all the people in this world haven't had the advantages that you've had.

### The more I see, the less I know

The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself to be a fool.

The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing.

Those who know do not speak. Those who speak do not know.

You have to know what you stand for, not just what you stand against.

Wisdom comes from experience. Experience is often a result of lack of wisdom.

A clever person solves a problem. A wise person avoids it.

The greatest enemy of knowledge is not ignorance, it is the illusion of knowledge.


## I know nothing 

I am not young enough to know everything.

Everyone you will ever meet knows something you don't.

Education is the ability to listen to almost anything without losing your temper or your self-confidence.

Educating the mind without educating the heart is no education at all.

Never waste valuable time, or mental peace of mind, on the affairs of others—that is too high a price to pay.

I have no special talents. I am only passionately curious.

Never memorize something that you can look up.

If you can't explain it to a six year old, you don't understand it yourself.

I have never met a man so ignorant that I couldn't learn something from him.

Sell your cleverness and buy bewilderment.


### happiness 

Happiness is only real when shared

The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your thoughts.

Happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.

Happiness is not the absence of problems, it's the ability to deal with them.

Attitude is a choice. Happiness is a choice. Optimism is a choice. Kindness is a choice. Giving is a choice. Respect is a choice. Whatever choice you make makes you. Choose wisely.

In the depth of winter, I finally learned that within me there lay an invincible summer.

Man only likes to count his troubles; he doesn't calculate his happiness.

Happiness consists in getting enough sleep. Just that, nothing more.

But who can say what's best? That's why you need to grab whatever chance you have of happiness where you find it, and not worry about other people too much. My experience tells me that we get no more than two or three such chances in a life time, and if we let them go, we regret it for the rest of our lives.

Folks are usually about as happy as they make their minds up to be.

Youth is happy because it has the capacity to see beauty. Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old.


I'd far rather be happy than right any day.

Be happy for this moment. This moment is your life.

Success is getting what you want, happiness is wanting what you get

Success is stumbling from failure to failure with no loss of enthusiasm.




### fear

Expose yourself to your deepest fear; after that, fear has no power, and the fear of freedom shrinks and vanishes. You are free.

Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear - not absence of fear.

The only real prison is fear, and the only real freedom is freedom from fear


I do not fear death. I had been dead for billions and billions of years before I was born, and had not suffered the slightest inconvenience from it.

Now that she had nothing to lose, she was free. -> so is death the ultimate freedom?


## friends

If we listened to our intellect we'd never have a love affair. We'd never have a friendship. We'd never go in business because we'd be cynical: "It's gonna go wrong." Or "She's going to hurt me." Or,"I've had a couple of bad love affairs, so therefore . . ." Well, that's nonsense. You're going to miss life. You've got to jump off the cliff all the time and build your wings on the way down.

Friendship- my definition- is built on two things. Respect and trust. Both elements have to be there. And it has to be mutual. You can have respect for someone, but if you don't have trust, the friendship will crumble.

Rare as is true love, true friendship is rarer.

Friendship marks a life even more deeply than love. Love risks degenerating into obsession, friendship is never anything but sharing.

I wonder if the snow loves the trees and fields, that it kisses them so gently? And then it covers them up snug, you know, with a white quilt; and perhaps it says, "Go to sleep, darlings, till the summer comes again.

Count your age by friends, not years. Count your life by smiles, not tears.

Walk beside me… just be my friend



## mistakes 

Freedom is not worth having if it does not include the freedom to make mistakes.

if you are making mistakes...you're Doing Something.

Learn from the mistakes of others. You can never live long enough to make them all yourself.

Make your mistakes, take your chances, look silly, but keep on going. Don’t freeze up.

walk slow but walk 



## truth 

In a time of deceit telling the truth is a revolutionary act.

The truth." Dumbledore sighed. "It is a beautiful and terrible thing, and should therefore be treated with great caution.

Tell the truth, or someone will tell it for you.

Everything we hear is an opinion, not a fact. Everything we see is a perspective, not the truth.

Whoever is careless with the truth in small matters cannot be trusted with important matters

Better a cruel truth than a comfortable delusion.

Above all, don't lie to yourself. The man who lies to himself and listens to his own lie comes to a point that he cannot distinguish the truth within him, or around him, and so loses all respect for himself and for others. And having no respect he ceases to love.

If you want to tell people the truth, make them laugh, otherwise they'll kill you.

All the world is made of faith, and trust, and pixie dust.

Believe nothing you hear, and only one half that you see.


## time 

It’s no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then.

All that we see or seem is but a dream within a dream.

All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.

Don’t waste your time in anger, regrets, worries, and grudges. Life is too short to be unhappy.

A man who dares to waste one hour of time has not discovered the value of life.

Time is the longest distance between two places.

Look at everything always as though you were seeing it either for the first or last time: Thus is your time on earth filled with glory.

What is the point of being alive if you don't at least try to do something remarkable?

Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?

Spring is the time of plans and projects.

It is not the length of life, but the depth.


## psychology 

Raise your words, not voice. It is rain that grows flowers, not thunder.

If you hate a person, you hate something in him that is part of yourself. What isn't part of ourselves doesn't disturb us.
 
Let no man pull you so low as to hate him.

In individuals, insanity is rare; but in groups, parties, nations and epochs, it is the rule.


Respect other people's feelings. It might mean nothing to you, but it could mean everything to them.

Everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an understanding of ourselves.

Of all the words of mice and men, the saddest are, "It might have been.

I cannot teach anybody anything. I can only make them think


I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.


## people

People change and forget to tell each other.

Don't waste your time with explanations: people only hear what they want to hear.

Just ignore everything they say and only pay attention to what they do.

If you pick up a starving dog and make him prosperous he will not bite you. This is the principal difference between a dog and man.


If a human disagrees with you, let him live. In a hundred billion galaxies, you will not find another.

## create 
Lack of direction, not lack of time, is the problem.

Instead of worrying about what you cannot control, shift your energy to what you can create.

In a time of destruction, create something.

Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go.




## ignorance
Confidence is ignorance. If you're feeling cocky, it's because there's something you don't know.

All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence; then success is sure.

Education: the path from cocky ignorance to miserable uncertainty.



## think 

The mind is its own place, and in itself can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven..


There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.

The world as we have created it is a process of our thinking. It cannot be changed without changing our thinking.

If everyone is thinking the same, then no one is thinking

Whenever you think or you believe or you know, you're a lot of other people: but the moment you feel, you're nobody-but-yourself.

Here's to the crazy ones. The misfits. The rebels. The troublemakers. The round pegs in the square holes. The ones who see things differently. They're not fond of rules. And they have no respect for the status quo. You can quote them, disagree with them, glorify or vilify them. About the only thing you can't do is ignore them. Because they change things. They push the human race forward. And while some may see them as the crazy ones, we see genius. Because the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world, are the ones who do.

Those who cannot change their minds cannot change anything.

Trust yourself. You know more than you think you do.

## act 

The future depends on what you do today.

A ship is safe in harbor, but that's not what ships are for.

who is the happier man, he who has braved the storm of life and lived or he who has stayed securely on shore and merely existed?

Life is not a matter of holding good cards, but of playing a poor hand well.


A random act of kindness, no matter how small, can make a tremendous impact on someone else's life.

sometimes you don't need a goal in life, you don't need to know the big picture. you just need to know what you're going to do next!

Life is like a prism. What you see depends on how you turn the glass.


Do what is right, not what is easy nor what is popular.

The secret of life is to fall seven times and to get up eight times.

If you don't go after what you want, you'll never have it. If you don't ask, the answer is always no. If you don't step forward, you're always in the same place.

Courage isn't having the strength to go on - it is going on when you don't have strength.


Do not go gentle into that good night.
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.


## perfect

If you look for perfection, you'll never be content.

And now that you don't have to be perfect, you can be good.

## move on 

That is why it is so important to let certain things go. To release them. To cut loose. People need to understand that no one is playing with marked cards; sometimes we win and sometimes we lose. Don't expect to get anything back, don't expect recognition for your efforts, don't expect your genius to be discovered or your love to be understood. Complete the circle. Not out of pride, inability or arrogance, but simply because whatever it is no longer fits in your life. Close the door, change the record, clean the house, get rid of the dust. Stop being who you were and become who you are.

You must make a decision that you are going to move on. It wont happen automatically. You will have to rise up and say, ‘I don’t care how hard this is, I don’t care how disappointed I am, I’m not going to let this get the best of me. I’m moving on with my life.

It is so hard to leave—until you leave. And then it is the easiest goddamned thing in the world


## listen

Don't think or judge, just listen.

People generally see what they look for, and hear what they listen for.

## decision

A man who procrastinates in his choosing will inevitably have his choice made for him by circumstance.


## be humble 

Look again at that dot. That's here. That's home. That's us.

## daily 

May you live every day of your life.

The trouble is if you don’t spend your life yourself, other people spend it for you.

One ought, every day at least, to hear a little song, read a good poem, see a fine picture, and, if it were possible, to speak a few reasonable words.

Get busy living or get busy dying.

## simple

Like all magnificent things, it's very simple.

Everything must be made as simple as possible. But not simpler.

## passion 

Nothing great in the world was accomplished without passion.

You can only become truly accomplished at something you love. Don’t make money your goal. Instead pursue the things you love doing and then do them so well that people can’t take their eyes off of you.

Wheresoever you go, go with all your heart.

If you are going through hell, keep going.

Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart.


## be kind 

Be mindful. Be grateful. Be positive. Be true. Be kind.

Kindness is a language which the deaf can hear and the blind can see.

Be kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a harder battle.

What do we live for, if it is not to make life less difficult for each other?


## ask 
Ask for what you want and be prepared to get it!

What you seek is seeking you.


## start 

The scariest moment is always just before you start.

The way to get started is to quit talking and begin doing.

you can, you should, and if you’re brave enough to start, you will.

The journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.


## live 

Life is to be enjoyed, not endured

How vain it is to sit down to write when you have not stood up to live.

Live to the point of tears.

My tongue will tell the anger of my heart, or else my heart concealing it will break.

These violent delights have violent ends


## freedom


I am free and that is why I am lost.


Everything can be taken from a man but one thing: the last of the human freedoms—to choose one’s attitude in any given set of circumstances, to choose one’s own way.

Anxiety is the dizziness of freedom.

I've found that there is always some beauty left -- in nature, sunshine, freedom, in yourself; these can all help you.

They who can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.


## iterate

The first draft of anything is shit.

You will do foolish things, but do them with enthusiasm.

Everybody talks about wanting to change things and help and fix, but ultimately all you can do is fix yourself. And that's a lot. Because if you can fix yourself, it has a ripple effect.


