
---
layout: post
title: happiness, friendship, fear
tags: quotes 

---

### The more I see, the less I know

The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself to be a fool.

The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing.

Those who know do not speak. Those who speak do not know.

You have to know what you stand for, not just what you stand against.

Wisdom comes from experience. Experience is often a result of lack of wisdom.

A clever person solves a problem. A wise person avoids it.

The greatest enemy of knowledge is not ignorance, it is the illusion of knowledge.



### happiness 


The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your thoughts.

Happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.

Happiness is not the absence of problems, it's the ability to deal with them.

Attitude is a choice. Happiness is a choice. Optimism is a choice. Kindness is a choice. Giving is a choice. Respect is a choice. Whatever choice you make makes you. Choose wisely.

In the depth of winter, I finally learned that within me there lay an invincible summer.

Man only likes to count his troubles; he doesn't calculate his happiness.

Happiness consists in getting enough sleep. Just that, nothing more.

But who can say what's best? That's why you need to grab whatever chance you have of happiness where you find it, and not worry about other people too much. My experience tells me that we get no more than two or three such chances in a life time, and if we let them go, we regret it for the rest of our lives.

Folks are usually about as happy as they make their minds up to be.

Youth is happy because it has the capacity to see beauty. Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old.


I'd far rather be happy than right any day.

Be happy for this moment. This moment is your life.



### fear

Expose yourself to your deepest fear; after that, fear has no power, and the fear of freedom shrinks and vanishes. You are free.

Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear - not absence of fear.

The only real prison is fear, and the only real freedom is freedom from fear


I do not fear death. I had been dead for billions and billions of years before I was born, and had not suffered the slightest inconvenience from it.

Now that she had nothing to lose, she was free. -> so is death the ultimate freedom?


###  friendship

If we listened to our intellect we'd never have a love affair. We'd never have a friendship. We'd never go in business because we'd be cynical: "It's gonna go wrong." Or "She's going to hurt me." Or,"I've had a couple of bad love affairs, so therefore . . ." Well, that's nonsense. You're going to miss life. You've got to jump off the cliff all the time and build your wings on the way down.

Friendship- my definition- is built on two things. Respect and trust. Both elements have to be there. And it has to be mutual. You can have respect for someone, but if you don't have trust, the friendship will crumble.

Rare as is true love, true friendship is rarer.

Friendship marks a life even more deeply than love. Love risks degenerating into obsession, friendship is never anything but sharing.

I wonder if the snow loves the trees and fields, that it kisses them so gently? And then it covers them up snug, you know, with a white quilt; and perhaps it says, "Go to sleep, darlings, till the summer comes again.

Count your age by friends, not years. Count your life by smiles, not tears.

Walk beside me… just be my friend



## mistakes 

Freedom is not worth having if it does not include the freedom to make mistakes.

if you are making mistakes...you're Doing Something.

Learn from the mistakes of others. You can never live long enough to make them all yourself.

Make your mistakes, take your chances, look silly, but keep on going. Don’t freeze up.

walk slow but walk 



## truth 

In a time of deceit telling the truth is a revolutionary act.

The truth." Dumbledore sighed. "It is a beautiful and terrible thing, and should therefore be treated with great caution.

Tell the truth, or someone will tell it for you.

Everything we hear is an opinion, not a fact. Everything we see is a perspective, not the truth.

Whoever is careless with the truth in small matters cannot be trusted with important matters

Better a cruel truth than a comfortable delusion.

Above all, don't lie to yourself. The man who lies to himself and listens to his own lie comes to a point that he cannot distinguish the truth within him, or around him, and so loses all respect for himself and for others. And having no respect he ceases to love.

## time 

It’s no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then.



All that we see or seem is but a dream within a dream.


All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.

Don’t waste your time in anger, regrets, worries, and grudges. Life is too short to be unhappy.

A man who dares to waste one hour of time has not discovered the value of life.

Look at everything always as though you were seeing it either for the first or last time: Thus is your time on earth filled with glory.

What is the point of being alive if you don't at least try to do something remarkable?

Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?


## psychology 

Raise your words, not voice. It is rain that grows flowers, not thunder.

If you hate a person, you hate something in him that is part of yourself. What isn't part of ourselves doesn't disturb us.
 
Respect other people's feelings. It might mean nothing to you, but it could mean everything to them.

Everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an understanding of ourselves.

Of all the words of mice and men, the saddest are, "It might have been.

I cannot teach anybody anything. I can only make them think

People change and forget to tell each other.

Don't waste your time with explanations: people only hear what they want to hear.

Just ignore everything they say and only pay attention to what they do.


## ignorance
Confidence is ignorance. If you're feeling cocky, it's because there's something you don't know.

All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence; then success is sure.

Education: the path from cocky ignorance to miserable uncertainty.

## act 

The future depends on what you do today.


A random act of kindness, no matter how small, can make a tremendous impact on someone else's life.

sometimes you don't need a goal in life, you don't need to know the big picture. you just need to know what you're going to do next!

Life is like a prism. What you see depends on how you turn the glass.


Do what is right, not what is easy nor what is popular.

The way to get started is to quit talking and begin doing.

If you don't go after what you want, you'll never have it. If you don't ask, the answer is always no. If you don't step forward, you're always in the same place.

Courage isn't having the strength to go on - it is going on when you don't have strength.


## think 

There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.

The world as we have created it is a process of our thinking. It cannot be changed without changing our thinking.

If everyone is thinking the same, then no one is thinking

Whenever you think or you believe or you know, you're a lot of other people: but the moment you feel, you're nobody-but-yourself.

Here's to the crazy ones. The misfits. The rebels. The troublemakers. The round pegs in the square holes. The ones who see things differently. They're not fond of rules. And they have no respect for the status quo. You can quote them, disagree with them, glorify or vilify them. About the only thing you can't do is ignore them. Because they change things. They push the human race forward. And while some may see them as the crazy ones, we see genius. Because the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world, are the ones who do.

Trust yourself. You know more than you think you do.

