---

layout: post
title: Thoughts on work 

---

Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done.



## In writing or didn't happen 
not in an email  ->  "never happened" when it's convenient.

verbally agreed -> send a confirmation email

The written record assures there is a clear and agreed understanding of when the project is a success and how it aims to get there.


## lack of momentum -> burnout

Founders and employees that are burn out nearly always work at startups without momentum. It’s hard to overstate how demoralizing it is.


## Can I work until 40 and then quit to enjoy??

You might start on US$130k, but at 40 you could be on $2m. You’re going to walk away from that?

It won't happen.

Money is an addiction that grabs your soul tight, and it doesn’t let go.

You never have enough.


> “If all you have to sell is your time, you’ll never get ahead. Figure out a way to make money even when you’re sleeping if you want to be successful.”




## How to pitch
1. enemy
2. why now 
3. promised land
4. obstacles/ how to get over
5. present evidence


> “Start with a sketch, but make it quick. There’s real work to be done.” – Stefan Hartwig


> 20% of customers 80% of revenue

“Do things that don’t scale” has rightfully become a mantra for startups. You usually need to recruit initial users one at a time


## How to spread trust

What the game is, defines what the players do.

more interactions >5 

more reward for cooperation 

less gain from cheating

low miscommunication, be a little forgiving

create win-win 

Build relationships. Find win-wins. Communicate clearly. 

to live and let live.





## negotiation

Understand the market.

Understand your options.

Understand their options.

Decide on your absolute walk-away outcome.

Decide on your ideal outcome.

Negotiate with absolute integrity.




> During YC, we tell founders they should be building product and talking to users, and not much else besides eating, sleeping, exercising, and spending time with their loved ones.



Internal transparency around metrics and financials 


"Before you can make things better, you have to stop making them worse”

“Know what people are asking you to be an expert in”

“People like us make our money in the seams of things”

100:10:1 to evaluating and rescuing software systems.

“To go left, turn right”

“Thinking is also work”



> The art of maximizing the amount of work not done 

Invest in improving structure



It’s more important to finish and deploy a leapfrog than to attempt perfection.

the art of economics = think long term for all groups


> Design is a reflection of  business even if it is not intentional. If you don’t care about your design then your design is telling people that you don’t care about your business.– Marco Suarez


under promise over deliver

Eliminate + Automate + Delegate + Procrastinate + Concentrate


hiring? paid weekend assignment + onsite discussion


don't be a snob 


"People don’t buy products because of what those products do, they buy products because of what they imagine they can do   with them.”


Managers are often risk averse. This is because in most companies, creating a large gain for the company will lead to modest rewards...while creating an equal-sized loss will get you fired.


Work has no inherent value: what matters is the results.


## Sales 
Sales really, really matters

Sales experience is golden

> “The sales department isn’t the whole company, but the whole company better be the sales department.”
Philip Kotler

build trust

identify pain

sell results


<hr>

Do not take loans.

<hr>

Use yourself as a litmus test -- would you like getting this email?  If not, there's a good chance your buyer won't either.


In general, always pick common sense as your guide.


## weekly meeetings
name, goal, hit, comments

monday 5 min -> Friday 5 min



If you have skills, commitment and passion, careers tend to take care of themselves.


“I don’t know, but would love to learn more…”


## transparency

Talk internally about strategy all the time, tell everyone what you’re hearing from customers, etc. The more information you share internally—good and bad—the better you’ll be.


No one cares about you. So you should quit focussing on impressing other people.

## hiring 

hire smart and kind people with potential

Agree with crystal clarity on the deliverables

Empower your employees

And get out of their way.


## have soft deadlines

The quality of the product is more important than the time it takes to achieve it.


> Don’t give the customer what they ask for; understand them, and revolutionize their world.