---
layout: post
title: life
tags: quotes
category: notes 
---

"Begin at the beginning," the King said, very gravely, "and go on till you come to the end: then stop.

It's a dangerous business, Frodo, going out your door. You step onto the road, and if you don't keep your feet, there's no knowing where you might be swept off to.

How much pain the evils have cost us that have never happened!

Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster. And if you gaze long enough into an abyss, the abyss will gaze back into you.

The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves.

We're all going to die, all of us, what a circus! That alone should make us love each other but it doesn't. We are terrorized and flattened by trivialities, we are eaten up by nothing.

Never be bullied into silence. Never allow yourself to be made a victim. Accept no one’s definition of your life; define yourself.

You have enemies? Good. That means you've stood up for something, sometime in your life.


You're alive only once, as far as we know, and what could be worse than getting to the end of your life and realizing you hadn't lived it?

At all times, Dare to be!

Life has no meaning. Each of us has meaning and we bring it to life. 


Atticus told me to delete the adjectives and I'd have the facts.

If you’re good at something, never do it for free.

Despise The Free Lunch

You know what charm is: a way of getting the answer yes without having asked any clear question.

Invisible things are the only realities.

Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large groups.

Whatever you are, be a good one.


Violence is the last refuge of the incompetent.

Was Du erlebst, kann keine Macht der Welt Dir rauben. 
(What you have experienced, no power on earth can take from you.) 




Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one.

The quality of any advice anybody has to offer has to be judged against the quality of life they actually lead.

Man is the only creature who refuses to be what he is.


A fit, healthy body—that is the best fashion statement

Get busy living or get busy dying.


The most beautiful people we have known are those who have known defeat, known suffering, known struggle, known loss, and have found their way out of the depths. These persons have an appreciation, a sensitivity, and an understanding of life that fills them with compassion, gentleness, and a deep loving concern. Beautiful people do not just happen.


It's not the load that breaks you down, it's the way you carry it.

Even the darkest night will end and the sun will rise.

There are no facts, only interpretations.

everybody is going to hurt you; you just gotta find the ones worth suffering for.

Lighthouses don’t go running all over an island looking for boats to save; they just stand there shining.

The reasonable man adapts himself to the world: the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man.

The creative adult is the child who has survived.

The creatures outside looked from pig to man, and from man to pig, and from pig to man again; but already it was impossible to say which was which.



It is good to have an end to journey toward; but it is the journey that matters, in the end.


You will lose what you value most, so treasure it while you can.

If you want to keep a secret, you must also hide it from yourself.

The longer I live, the more I observe that carrying around anger is the most debilitating to the person who bears it.

Wanting to be someone else is a waste of the person you are.

Don't cry over someone who wouldn't cry over you.


Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough

May it be a light to you in dark places, when all other lights go out.


The finest of pleasures are the unexpected ones.

We shouldn't be looking for heroes, we should be looking for good ideas.

The things you used to own, now they own you.

Books serve to show a man that those original thoughts of his aren't very new after all.


Blessed are the hearts that can bend; they shall never be broken.

To live is the rarest thing in the world. Most people exist, that is all.

Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional.

In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity

Children learn more from what you are than what you teach.

If I am not good to myself, how can I expect anyone else to be good to me?

Poetry is what gets lost in translation.

It is better to offer no excuse than a bad one.

Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding.

The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.

Books: a beautifully browsable invention that needs no electricity and exists in a readable form no matter what happens.


The unhappiest people in this world, are those who care the most about what other people think.


The world is full of magic things, patiently waiting for our senses to grow sharper.

The greatness of a man is not in how much wealth he acquires, but in his integrity and his ability to affect those around him positively

Life is too short to waste your time on people who don’t respect, appreciate, and value you.

Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.

Only the dead have seen the end of war.

Do your little bit of good where you are; it's those little bits of good put together that overwhelm the world.

Don't compromise yourself - you're all you have.

Anyone whose goal is 'something higher' must expect someday to suffer vertigo. What is vertigo? Fear of falling? No, Vertigo is something other than fear of falling. It is the voice of the emptiness below us which tempts and lures us, it is the desire to fall, against which, terrified, we defend ourselves.

Some people feel the rain. Others just get wet.

The best index to a person's character is how he treats people who can't do him any good, and how he treats people who can't fight back.

Think of all the beauty still left around you and be happy.

When someone shows you who they are believe them; the first time.

You never know what worse luck your bad luck has saved you from.

The most common way people give up their power is by thinking they don't have any.

Laters, baby.

