---
layout: post
title: Some poems I like 
tags: best 
---


"I think that I shall never see

A poem lovely as a tree."

---

“Have little and gain much

Have much and be confused”

---

“When the greatness of Tao is present

action arises from one’s own heart

When the greatness of Tao is absent

action comes from the rules

of “kindness” and “justice”

If you need rules to be kind and just,

if you act virtuous,

this is a sure sign that virtue is absent

Thus we see the great hypocrisy”

---

“Things in harmony with Tao remain

Things that are forced, grow for a while

but then wither away"

Tao Te Ching

---

"Il faut cultiver notre jardin"

We must cultivate our garden 

Voltaire

---

A Silly Poem : 

Said Hamlet to Ophelia, 

I'll draw a sketch of thee, 

What kind of pencil shall I use? 

2B or not 2B? 

---

All that is gold does not glitter,

Not all those who wander are lost;

The old that is strong does not wither,

Deep roots are not reached by the frost.


---

It’s dark because you are trying too hard.

Lightly child, lightly. Learn to do everything lightly.

Yes, feel lightly even though you’re feeling deeply.

Just lightly let things happen and lightly cope with them.

---

Beautiful is the moment,

When the heart indifferent

To joy or sorrow, just trusts

Whatever this life brings

But finds time to just be.

---

The best lack all conviction, 
while the worst
Are full of passionate intensity.
...

The Second Coming, Yeats


---


Enjoy yourself, enjoy yourself, it's later than you think


---

## If


If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you,

If you can dream and not make dreams your master;

<br>

If you can wait and not be tired by waiting,

Or, being lied about, don't deal in lies,

<br>

Or being hated don't give way to hating,

And yet don't look too good, nor talk too wise

<br>

If you can treat Triumph and Disaster just the same

<br>

Lose, and start again at your beginnings,

<br>

If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you,

<br>

If you can fill the unforgiving minute


---


Many years later, as he faced the firing squad, Colonel Aureliano Buendía was to remember that distant afternoon when his father took him to discover ice.

---

On the day they were to kill him, Santiago Nasar arose at five thirty in the morning to wait for the boat carrying the bishop.

---

the danger is to lose who we are,

our character, integrity, warmth

---

"The world needs a wash and a week's rest."

---

May it be a light to you in dark places, when all other lights go out.

---

Sell your cleverness and buy bewilderment.
