---
layout: post
title: People  
---

"The most beautiful people we have known are those who have known defeat, known suffering, known struggle, known loss, and have found their way out of the depths. These persons have an appreciation, a sensitivity, and an understanding of life that fills them with compassion, gentleness, and a deep loving concern. Beautiful people do not just happen."

Emotions are contagious

Anger burns you first

People will never forget how you made them feel

Don't think or judge, just listen. Social skills naturally arise from genuine empathy 

Be kind, not clever

People see what they look for, and hear what they listen for. They don't want to hear the truth. They hear what they want to hear anyway 

Reciprocity is central. Put sunshine get sunshine. Put storm get blizzard. 

Accept people as they are. 

Tell people there's an invisible man in the sky who created the universe, and the vast majority will believe you. Tell them the paint is wet, and they have to touch it to be sure.

Despise The Free Lunch

The rich accumulate money because they need to be liked and approved

When someone shows you who they are believe them; the first time.

We should judge people more carefully and replace material lens with moral lens. 

Most people will choose unhappiness over uncertainty.

Being good at something doesn’t promise rewards. What’s rewarded in the world is scarcity


Any fool can make a rule and and any fool will mind it


life is competition

people born unfree, unequal,  subject to physical and psychological heredity, customs, traditions

There is no justice in history 

Gods, nations, money, human rights, laws, justice.. are all human imagination. 

People invented them to provide necessary social links

action <-> reaction 

People don’t hate violence, they love it in the right context 


---

If a human disagrees with you, let him live. In a hundred billion galaxies, you will not find another.

Just ignore everything they say and only pay attention to what they do.

Raise your words, not your voice. Rain, not thunder.

In individuals, insanity is rare; but in groups, parties, nations and epochs, it is the rule.



Respect other people's feelings. It might mean nothing to you, but it could mean everything to them.

People will never forget how you made them feel.

Let noone pull you so low as to hate them.

Everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an understanding of ourselves. 

People will often think they understand, and they’ll say they understand, but then their actions show that it just ain’t so.



## Praise and criticism 

Praise the good instead of complaining. 

Never use praise for manipulation. 

Criticism must be in absolute privacy. 

If you tell the wrong way, tell the right way, too

Both praise and criticm must be specific and for the action not the person.

Neither chase praise nor take criticism personally. 



## simple words with big effects

No, thank you

I’m sorry, that was my fault

I don’t understand

Can you help me?