---
layout: post
title: Miscellaneous - On life, universe, and everything 
---


- [Advice](#advice)
- [Age](#age)
- [Alcohol](#alcohol)
- [Analogies](#analogies)
- [Ask](#ask)
- [Beauty](#beauty)
- [Climate change](#climate-change)
- [Computational kindness](#computational-kindness)
- [Conflict](#conflict)
- [Consider beginnings](#consider-beginnings)
- [Criticism](#criticism)
- [Difficult conversations](#difficult-conversations)
- [Excuses](#excuses)
- [Exercise](#exercise)
- [Feedback](#feedback)
- [Finance](#finance)
- [Flow](#flow)
- [Future](#future)
- [Growth](#growth)
- [Health](#health)
- [Help](#help)
- [Killing](#killing)
- [Lies](#lies)
- [Music](#music)
- [Pain](#pain)
- [Perfection](#perfection)
- [Persuasion](#persuasion)
- [Plan](#plan)
- [Porn](#porn)
- [Prioritize](#prioritize)
- [Probability](#probability)
- [Reading](#reading)
- [Reason](#reason)
- [Relationships](#relationships)
- [Religion](#religion)
- [Resilience](#resilience)
- [Rotting](#rotting)
- [Rules](#rules)
- [Scarcity](#scarcity)
- [Secrets](#secrets)
- [Sleep](#sleep)
- [Smoking](#smoking)
- [Status](#status)
- [Story telling](#story-telling)
- [Style](#style)
- [Traffic](#traffic)
- [Uncertainty](#uncertainty)
- [Violence](#violence)
- [War](#war)
- [Wisdom](#wisdom)


> The story so far: 
> 
> In the beginning the Universe was created. 
> 
> This has made a lot of people very angry 
> 
> and been widely regarded as a bad move.


## Advice 

Give support, not advice

The quality of any advice anybody has to offer has to be judged against the quality of life they actually lead.

## Age 

...inside every old person is a young person wondering what happened.


## Alcohol

Drink when you are happy, your sorrows know how to swim 

## Analogies

Great tools, use them, yet an analogy is only partly true, so they are not to be taken too literally 




## Ask 

What you seek is seeking you. Ask for what you want and be prepared to get it!



## Beauty

I've found that there is always some beauty left -- in nature, sunshine, freedom, in yourself; these can all help you.

"Youth is happy because it has the capacity to see beauty. Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old."

Think of all the beauty still left around you and be happy.




## Climate change 

The idea of a "personal carbon footprint" was popularized by BP, the world's 6th largest polluter. They knew that passing the buck onto "individual responsibility" ensured they would never be held accountable.



## Computational kindness


reduce options

politely assert what you want 

do not try to simulate other minds, do not make people simulate yours 




## Conflict 

Pick your battles 

Simply ask them to thoroughly explain their idea until they notice the flaw themselves 



## Consider beginnings 

Treat small as big, treat few as much 

Early bad decisions are hard to fix




## Criticism 

"Whenever you feel like criticizing any one," he told me, "just remember that all the people in this world haven't had the advantages that you've had.



## Difficult conversations

Have that difficult conversation. Listen without defensiveness when they criticize you. Name the elephant in the room. Get rejected. And feel it all. You will feel relieved and alive. 

Bitter truths are healing 


## Excuses

It is better to offer no excuse than a bad one.


## Exercise

Exercise is a wonder drug.

The reason you don't have energy to workout is because you don't workout.

## Feedback 

Be strategic with the feedback you listen to

A change of perspective is worth 80 IQ points.


## Finance 

Not all costs are financial. Time, attention, mental and emotional energy are much more valuable

## Flow 

Do it for its own sake 

Do not expect to “get” anything 

Do not expect to be better 

One-up ? 

Play the game 

Ego is part of the play, like a cloud, a wave, a mountain 

Live as if you listen to music, or you play music 

The aim is the play itself 




## Future 

The future is here but not evenly distributed

If you want to live in the future, live in the freest place around. Because eventually, all of the innovators and creators will show up there.

Let not future troubles you, for you will have the same reason 



## Growth 

Replace the model with a better one, strenghten a weak link

It is never too late, get up and walk 

Prevent the worst

Get rid of the worst 



Progress is not linear. There is wisdom in every stage. Learn from ideas you dislike, Hegel 

## Health 

Life is extremely fragile. It's too easy to take good health for granted.

A fit, healthy body is the best fashion statement



## Help 

Put your own oxygen mask on first.

## Killing 

There are causes worth dying for, but none worth killing for. - Camus 

## Lies 

We lie to ourselves to feel better because it is easier than making something better in reality 

It’s like taking a painkiller instead of solving the root cause

When you accept yourself as you are the urge to lie will disappear

---

cues that someone might be lying, 

Jests, mimics, fake smiles, too little or too much eye contact

Liers may look down, lower voice, set up a barrier, pepper it with irrelevant details

---

a good way to handle, 

Let go of your anger and contempt

Switch to the curiosity mode

Ask specific questions, go backward



## Music

One of the tragedies of real life is that there is no background music.


## Pain 

The pain is neither unbearable nor unending, as long as you keep in mind its limits and don't magnify them in your imagination.

Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional.


## Perfection 

And now that you don't have to be perfect, you can be good.


## Persuasion

Methods of persuasion

inspiration, 

logic, 

collaboration, 

participation, 

personal appeals, 

exchange, 

order, 

pressure 

---

* Leverage emotions, soothe fears, feed hopes
* Use visuals, examples, facts, stats, without getting boring 
* Make it short and funny


## Plan 

A goal without a plan is just a wish. - Antoine de Saint-Exupéry

Nobody panics when things go “according to plan”. Even if the plan is horrifying.


## Porn 


* frequent porn consumption literally changes brain structure, neurochemical balance, numbs pleasure response, decreases willpower, increases porn sensitivity (just like drugs)
* key driver of people quitting porn: erectile dysfunction aka ED (over time, brain sends weaker and weaker signals to penis)
* older men recover from ED faster than younger men (2-3 vs 4-5 months) because they started watching at later age; older men didn’t start having ED problems until they got high-speed internet (!)
* teen brains more vulnerable: higher dopamine levels, higher neuroplasticity



## Prioritize 

What’s most important to you? Eliminate everything else.

What I don’t want?


## Probability 

Judge less, accept more. 

Less “I know”, more “It seems, maybe, probably” 

What you want isn't always best for you 

Limits are imaginary

Humble, adaptable, long term thinking, skepticism 



## Reading 

The aim of reading is not to accept and agree with all we read. 

We should think on the material, and draw our own conclusions.


## Reason

who is slow yet quick, merry yet grave -> who follows the reason as a guide 

## Relationships 

Successful relationships tend to bring up even little things that bother them. They don’t let things slide, they continually try to repair their relationship

## Religion 

People like religion for community, music, rituals, architecture, tradition, a sense of belonging, hope, fear 

Spinoza
## Resilience 

In the depth of winter, I finally learned that within me there lay an invincible summer.

## Rotting 

"The creatures outside looked from pig to man, and from man to pig, and from pig to man again; but already it was impossible to say which was which."

## Rules 

Any fool can make a rule and and any fool will mind it

## Scarcity 

Being good at something doesn’t promise rewards. What’s rewarded in the world is scarcity

## Secrets

If you want to keep a secret, you must also hide it from yourself.


## Sleep 

Alcohol reduces sleep quality, it is one of the worst suppressors of deep sleep 

Happiness consists in getting enough sleep. 

## Smoking

Such a disgustingh waste of time yet I have smoked almost 150 packs through years and inhaled lots of poison for nothing 

## Status 

Universities are not selling education, they are selling membership in an exclusive club.

## Story telling 

Good stories include a change in fortune, a rise and fall, or a fall and rise

## Style 

Style. That’s what people remember.

Clothes make the man. Naked people have little or no influence on society.


## Traffic 

Have you ever noticed that anybody driving slower than you is an idiot, and anyone going faster than you is a maniac?


## Uncertainty

Most people will choose unhappiness over uncertainty.

## Violence

People don’t hate violence, they love it in the right context 

Violence is the last refuge of the incompetent.


## War 

Only the dead have seen the end of war.

The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.

Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding.


## Wisdom 

When I was a boy of 14, my father was so ignorant I could hardly stand to have the old man around. 

But when I got to be 21, I was astonished at how much the old man had learned in seven years.




> I think I've discovered the secret of life -- you just hang around until you get used to it.
