---
layout: post
title:  On life  
---

- [Act](#act)
- [Advice](#advice)
- [Analogies](#analogies)
- [Anger](#anger)
- [Art](#art)
- [Ask](#ask)
- [Anxiety](#anxiety)
- [Beauty](#beauty)
- [Character](#character)
- [Change](#change)
- [Children](#children)
- [Choice](#choice)
- [Climate change](#climate-change)
- [Communication](#communication)
- [Community](#community)
- [Computational kindness](#computational-kindness)
- [Confidence](#confidence)
- [Conflict](#conflict)
- [Consider beginnings](#consider-beginnings)
- [Creativity](#creativity)
- [Critical thinking](#critical-thinking)
- [Criticism](#criticism)
- [Daring](#daring)
- [Death](#death)
- [Desire](#desire)
- [Difficult conversations](#difficult-conversations)
- [Empathy](#empathy)
- [Enemies](#enemies)
- [Envy](#envy)
- [Exercise](#exercise)
- [Feedback](#feedback)
- [Finance](#finance)
- [Flow](#flow)
- [Focus](#focus)
- [Folly](#folly)
- [Freedom](#freedom)
- [Future](#future)
- [Gratitude](#gratitude)
- [Growth](#growth)
- [Habits](#habits)
- [Happiness](#happiness)
- [Health](#health)
- [Heart](#heart)
- [Help](#help)
- [Hope](#hope)
- [Humility](#humility)
- [Ideas](#ideas)
- [Ignorance](#ignorance)
- [Integrity](#integrity)
- [Kindness](#kindness)
- [Know your limits](#know-your-limits)
- [Know thyself](#know-thyself)
- [Leadership](#leadership)
- [Learning](#learning)
- [Lies](#lies)
- [Love](#love)
- [Materialism](#materialism)
- [Meditation](#meditation)
- [Mental models](#mental-models)
- [Misfortune](#misfortune)
- [Mistakes](#mistakes)
- [Mindful](#mindful)
- [Negotiations](#negotiations)
- [Pain](#pain)
- [Parenting](#parenting)
- [People](#people)
- [Perfection](#perfection)
- [Perspective](#perspective)
- [Persuasion](#persuasion)
- [Plan](#plan)
- [Poetry](#poetry)
- [Porn](#porn)
- [Power](#power)
- [Prioritize](#prioritize)
- [Probability](#probability)
- [Problem Solving](#problem-solving)
- [Public speaking](#public-speaking)
- [Reading](#reading)
- [Reason](#reason)
- [Regrets](#regrets)
- [Relationships](#relationships)
- [Resilience](#resilience)
- [Rotting](#rotting)
- [Scarcity](#scarcity)
- [Secrets](#secrets)
- [Simplicity](#simplicity)
- [Sleep](#sleep)
- [Smoking](#smoking)
- [Status](#status)
- [Story telling](#story-telling)
- [Success](#success)
- [Thoughtful](#thoughtful)
- [Time](#time)
- [Trust](#trust)
- [Truth](#truth)
- [Uncertainty](#uncertainty)
- [Violence](#violence)
- [War](#war)
- [Wealth](#wealth)
- [Work](#work)
- [Writing](#writing)

Some quotations are without sources, I don't claim ownership for anything here, the ideas are what's important

## Act 

The future depends on what you do today. Do what is right, not what is easy nor what is popular.

Do what you feel in your heart to be right – for you’ll be criticized anyway.

You do not write your life with words...You write it with actions.  What you think is not important.  It is only important what you do

Only what you do matters

Do your little bit of good where you are; it's those little bits of good put together that overwhelm the world.


---

Don’t wait, make a decision now and course-correct

It begins a single step. Stop waiting, start doing.

---

your actions + myriad other factors out of your control = your results 

better to be balanced, to be hopeful but not to the point of greed, to be cautious yet not fearful

---

Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go.

---

It is good to have an end to journey toward; but it is the journey that matters, in the end.


---

A ship is safe in harbor, but that's not what ships are for.

Who is happier, who has braved the storm of life and lived or who has stayed securely on shore and merely existed?

---

Do not go gentle into that good night.

Rage, rage against the dying of the light.

---

"It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat."

## Advice 

Give support, not advice


The quality of any advice anybody has to offer has to be judged against the quality of life they actually lead.

## Analogies

Great tools, use them, yet an analogy is only partly true, so they are not to be taken too literally 

## Anger 

Why should we feel anger at the world? As if the world would notice.

The longer I live, the more I observe that carrying around anger is the most debilitating to the person who bears it.


## Art 

Almost every human activity is an art, and only genuine interest and passion creates beautiful art

Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.

## Ask 

What you seek is seeking you. Ask for what you want and be prepared to get it!

## Anxiety

Anxiety is the dizziness of freedom.

Worrying doesn’t make it one bit better, use your energy to act instead

Don't be over anxious, most things are not worth to be anxious, relax 

Today I escaped from anxiety. Or no, I discarded it, because it was within me, in my own perceptions-not outside.

How much pain the evils have cost us that have never happened!


## Beauty

I've found that there is always some beauty left -- in nature, sunshine, freedom, in yourself; these can all help you.

"Youth is happy because it has the capacity to see beauty. Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old."

Think of all the beauty still left around you and be happy.

## Character 

Real growth is building character, striving to improve in generosity, integrity, humility, fairness, or courage.

You deserve your love and affection

Some good heuristics for life:
- treat everyone a little better than you want to be treated
- listen more than you speak
- give more praise than criticism
- create and contribute more than you consume
- try to leave things a little better than you found them


There comes a time when one must take a position that is neither safe, nor politic, nor popular, but he must take it because conscience tells him it is right.

― Martin Luther King Jr.

Never be afraid to raise your voice for honesty and truth and compassion against injustice and lying and greed. If people all over the world...would do this, it would change the earth.

― William Faulkner

When someone shows you who they are believe them; the first time.

Was Du erlebst, kann keine Macht der Welt Dir rauben. 
(What you have experienced, no power on earth can take from you.) 

## Change 

You don’t have to be the person you were yesterday 

## Children 

A child can teach an adult three things: 

to be happy for no reason, 

to always be busy with something,

to know how to demand with all his might that which he desires.

## Choice 

“Everything can be taken from a man but one thing: the last of the human freedoms—to choose one’s attitude in any given set of circumstances, to choose one’s own way.” 

― Viktor E. Frankl
## Climate change 

The idea of a "personal carbon footprint" was popularized by BP, the world's 6th largest polluter. They knew that passing the buck onto "individual responsibility" ensured they would never be held accountable.

## Communication 

Express yourself, people can't read your mind 

People are busy and something being obvious to you doesn't mean it's obvious to them 

Do not suppress your emotions

Do not carry emotional baggage

Speak, write, create

Don't try to prove anything, people believe what they want to believe 

Praise and criticism are just opinions. Let them go

The best story wins, not the best idea

Unless you ask, you ain’t getting anything.

Say I don't know more often 

Don't be afraid to ask 

If you want something, ask for it.

Don’t say all you think 

It's a lot easier to keep your house clean when you have frequent guests. Similarly, it's a lot easier to keep your thoughts in order when you share them frequently.

The most important thing in communication is to hear what isn’t being said.

---


Say only what you mean 

Believe things that you say 

If you don't mean or don't believe, don't say it 

Say something good or say nothing 


## Community 

We get sick alone, we get well together

Everyone has worth, has value, and deserves to be treated with dignity and respect. 

Everyone deserves love and a chance 

Indeed no one deserves anything but anyway showing understanding and respect is better for your character 

Each of us has the ability to heal 

good social relationships -> good life 

https://youtu.be/8KkKuTCFvzI?list=FLwnL1ngkxfNFBPIXpHm2A2A…


## Computational kindness


reduce options

politely assert what you want 

do not try to simulate other minds, do not make people simulate yours 


## Confidence 

You become who you believe you are. You do what you believe you can do.

Be proud of yourself, what you do, your past, where you work, ... 

You are what you are 

Handle yourself with pride and respect 

Don't apologize for your situation in life 

if you want respect you should signal that you deserve it 


## Conflict 

Emotions are contagious. Put sunshine, get sunshine 

Slow to anger, quick to calm

Pick your battles 

Simply ask them to thoroughly explain their idea until they notice the flaw themselves 



## Consider beginnings 

Treat small as big, treat few as much 


## Creativity 

The creative adult is the child who has survived.

Lack of direction, not lack of time, is the problem.

Instead of worrying about what you cannot control, shift your energy to what you can create.

In a time of destruction, create something.

The reasonable man adapts himself to the world: the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man.


## Critical thinking 

See with your own eyes

Question

Examine 

If everyone is thinking the same, then no one is thinking

Delete the adjectives and you have the facts.
― Harper Lee, To Kill a Mockingbird

Systematic criticism and correction

“We shouldn't be looking for heroes, we should be looking for good ideas.”

Truth is ridiculed -> violently opposed -> becomes self-evident

---

How can you be so sure that you have the truth and they are wrong, have you considered all your ideas and others to the bottom? 

Tolerance, common sense. Caution, prudence, a thoughtful respect for tradition 

Locke 

---

open society 

paradigms 

leaps

shared perspective

all models are wrong, some are useful 

less wrong 

Popper 

---

“Believe nothing you hear, and only one half that you see.” 
― Edgar Allan Poe

 Be strategic with the feedback you listen to

## Criticism 

"Whenever you feel like criticizing any one," he told me, "just remember that all the people in this world haven't had the advantages that you've had.

## Daring 

Overthinking is a waste of time. Regrets and worry doesn't make it one bit better 

Nothing is done without daring 

Trust yourself. You know more than you think you do.

Trust yourself, you are more capable than you think

Live to the point of tears.

---

We are searching for wisdom in books and talks. 

We seem to believe that other older, wiser, cooler people already sorted things out. It is not. 

Your own reflection on your latest anger will provide you more insight than some brilliant writing on anger.  

Similar with the other emotions and human condition. 

You have already a lot of experience, 
your own life is full of insight. 

Dare to think for yourself. 

Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster. And if you gaze long enough into an abyss, the abyss will gaze back into you.

Never be bullied into silence. Never allow yourself to be made a victim. Accept no one’s definition of your life; define yourself.

## Death 

Life is short and there might be no tomorrow morning for you 

“Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart.” 
― Steve Jobs

We're all going to die, all of us, what a circus! That alone should make us love each other but it doesn't. We are terrorized and flattened by trivialities, we are eaten up by nothing.

## Desire 

You’ll get it when you no longer want it.

## Difficult conversations

Have that difficult conversation. Listen without defensiveness when they criticize you. Name the elephant in the room. Get rejected. And feel it all. You will feel relieved and alive. 

Bitter truths are healing 

## Empathy 

What we give others is judgment, while what we ourselves seek from others is understanding.

To tolerate is to "otherise" you are "allowed" to continue being as you are, but on the outside.

Indifference and neglect are dangerous

We all need to feel heard, loved, understood, respected. 

No one is completely foolish, and we are all foolish in some regards. 

Before dismissing a person or judging too harshly, remember we are all human, and to err is human. 

Look inside. What you understand from your own feelings mostly applies to others. 

Almost all people fears death and rejection, 

we all have regrets, mistakes, insecurities, silly moments. 

The ancient advice has some truth, treat others as you want to be treated. 


## Enemies 

You have enemies? Good. That means you've stood up for something, sometime in your life.

We rarely appreciate all that our enemies do for us.

They test us and make us stronger.

They exploit our flaws, motivating us to correct them.

They show us what we do not wish to become.

So many memorable lessons.

What fine teachers our enemies are.


## Envy

Society shames envy, yet we all feel it and don't talk about it. 

Whenever you feel envious, get specific. 

What exactly are you envious? 

Mostly it's just a small part of a life. 

Getting specific enables you to replace envy with understanding. 

## Exercise

Exercise is a wonder drug.

The reason you don't have energy to workout is because you don't workout.

## Feedback 

Be strategic with the feedback you listen to

A change of perspective is worth 80 IQ points.


## Finance 

Not all costs are financial. Time, attention, mental and emotional energy are much more valuable

## Flow 

Do it for its own sake 

Do not expect to “get” anything 

Do not expect to be better 

One-up ? 

Play the game 

Ego is part of the play, like a cloud, a wave, a mountain 

Live as if you listen to music, or you play music 

The aim is the play itself 


## Focus 

Human brain is single threaded

Do one thing and do it well 

---

The mind seems to like to generalise. 

We describe things vaguely. 

When we say a nice person, a great job, or a fun date, well this is not false but not specific. 

Being vague prevents us from truly understanding people and situations. So focus, ask yourself, what I **really** mean.



## Folly 

To folly it belongs to judge things badly, 
to deliberate badly, 
to be bad in social intercourse, 
to use badly present goods, 
to think erroneously about what is good and noble as regards life. 

Folly is accompanied by ignorance, inexperience, incontinence, tactlessness, shortness of memory. 

It is better to offer no excuse than a bad one.


## Freedom 

Freedom is to conquer your dark side, your anger, greed, hubris, .. 

“To be free from convention is not to spurn it but not to be deceived by it. It is to be able to use it as an instrument instead of being used by it.”

Thinking ability creates free will

Freedom is not worth having if it does not include the freedom to make mistakes.

I am free and that is why I am lost.

you don't have to do anything, if you face the consequences


## Future 

The future is here but not evenly distributed

If you want to live in the future, live in the freest place around. Because eventually, all of the innovators and creators will show up there.

Let not future troubles you, for you will have the same reason 

## Gratitude

Don't take it for granted

Get cheerful for its own sake, without a reason, to be alive is reason enough 
****
I can find a million things to complain or a million things to appreciate

Our capacity for worrying is endless and almost nothing worths it. Let it go

If you’re winning but not having any fun, are you really winning?

Want everything, lose everything 

You will lose what you value most, so treasure it while you can.


## Growth 

Replace the model with a better one, strenghten a weak link

It is never too late, get up and walk 

Prevent the worst

Get rid of the worst 

## Habits 

To break a bad habit, focus and feel the habit 

Gain good habits

Make it easy, make it visible, and rewarding 

Stack habits 


## Happiness 

It is only real when shared

Life is to be enjoyed, not endured

Don't let anyone steal your joy

 "To be satisfied on all occasions, and be cheerful." 

"Folks are usually about as happy as they make their minds up to be."

How much of our lives have we spent fighting shadows rather than simply enjoying the sun?

The unhappiest people in this world, are those who care the most about what other people think.

Even the darkest night will end and the sun will rise.

The finest of pleasures are the unexpected ones.


--- 

Happiness = what you have - what you expect

Minimize expectation to minimize disappointment 

---

Someone to love, something to do, and something to hope for

---

Enjoy everything, you may not experience it twice.

Enjoy yourself, it's later than you think

---

Beautiful is the moment,

When the heart indifferent

To joy or sorrow, just trusts

Whatever this life brings

But finds time to just be.

---

How much of our lives have we spent fighting shadows rather than simply enjoying the sun?

---

“Nothing in life matters quite as much as you think it does while you are thinking about it.” - Daniel Kahneman


People only likes to count their troubles; they don't calculate happiness.

The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your thoughts.

Happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.

Happiness is not the absence of problems, it's the ability to deal with them.

I'd far rather be happy than right any day.

---

be a friend to yourself


Never waste valuable time, or mental peace of mind, on the affairs of others—that is too high a price to pay.

meddle not with many things if you wish to live happily 



## Health 

Life is extremely fragile. It's too easy to take good health for granted.

A fit, healthy body is the best fashion statement

## Heart 

Heart is a compass

Whatever you do, do it with all your heart 

“Wheresoever you go, go with all your heart.” 
― Confucius

Whenever you think or you believe or you know, you're a lot of other people: but the moment you feel, you're nobody-but-yourself.

My tongue will tell the anger of my heart, or else my heart concealing it will break.

Nothing great in the world was accomplished without passion. Do it for love. 

If you are going through hell, keep going.

These violent delights have violent ends

You will do foolish things, but do them with enthusiasm.

To live is the rarest thing in the world. Most people exist, that is all.

Blessed are the hearts that can bend; they shall never be broken.


## Help 

Put your own oxygen mask on first.


## Hope 

I'd rather be an optimist and wrong than a pessimist and right.

Hope yet remember that hope is not a strategy 
## Humility 

I am just another animal, with a brief life, full of shortcomings, living on a piece of dust, in an infinitely big universe. Thinking about my place in the universe, frees me from pride

Arrogance is a weakness. Confident people are humble. You don't have to prove anything.  You don’t need to pretend to be more than you are. 


* We are social animals (groups are smarter than individuals, effectiveness is determined by communication)
* Emotion is the foundation of reason, without it we can’t make decisions
* We are all overconfident (19% think they’re in the top 1% of earners, 95% of professors think they’re better than average)
* We need the mental models and humility to realize we aren’t great

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rGfhahVBIQw

The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself to be a fool.

The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing.

Those who know do not speak. Those who speak do not know.

The greatest enemy of knowledge is not ignorance, it is the illusion of knowledge.

I am not young enough to know everything.

Everyone you will ever meet knows something you don't.

Look again at that dot. That's here. That's home. That's us.

---

Even being hungry or not getting enough sleep clouds our judgement. 

Our thoughts and values are changing. 

Imagine sincerely, what you believe might be wrong. 

in 100 years, there will be no one to remember you 

## Ideas 

great ideas = reordering existing + connecting together + right timing

Examine, select, and use all good ideas  

Listening and speaking clarifies thoughts, 

Taking a walk speaking with a friend is a great way to think. 

A lot of good ideas come in shower, or in a train, or walking

Good ideas are like butterflies, 

they can come near when you are not consciously looking for them 

Thoughts come in bits and pieces. 

If we don't note them down, they will lost in the wind

We shouldn't be looking for heroes, we should be looking for good ideas.




## Ignorance

Confidence is ignorance. If you're feeling cocky, it's because there's something you don't know.

All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence; then success is sure.

Education: the path from cocky ignorance to miserable uncertainty.


## Integrity 

Harmony in thoughts words actions 

Nothing can harm a person of integrity

Conform to the nature and reason 

Do what is right. Do it with all your heart

Don’t compromise yourself - you’re all you have 

do nothing against your will

nor against community

nor without due examination

nor with reluctancy 

never pursue anything that requires you to do a bad thing, needs secret of walls, to suspect, to lose your modesty etc. 

The best index to a person's character is how he treats people who can't do him any good, and how he treats people who can't fight back.




## Kindness

Be kind to yourself. If you won’t, who will?

Kindness is a language which the deaf can hear and the blind can see.

Be kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a harder battle.

What do we live for, if it is not to make life less difficult for each other?

If I am not good to myself, how can I expect anyone else to be good to me?


## Know your limits


"Begin at the beginning," the King said, very gravely, "and go on till you come to the end: then stop.


Accept what is in your control and don’t worry for the rest 

You don’t have to be perfect, good enough is good 

Get one bit better, keep walking


## Know thyself

Unconscious feelings and thoughts direct decisions 

"Until you make the unconscious conscious, it will direct your life, and you will call it fate."

Don't take yourself too seriously

You have to know what you stand for, not just what you stand against.

Whatever you are, be a good one.

Man is the only creature who refuses to be what he is.

Wanting to be someone else is a waste of the person you are.

## Leadership

Leadership is like gardening. You plant the seeds and water them. The growing part is on the plant.

Seeds can become giant trees, yet you can’t force it. 

All you can do is to encourage, to protect, to provide the environment, and to remove obstacles.


“If you want to build a ship, don't drum up people to collect wood and don't assign them tasks and work, but rather teach them to long for the endless immensity of the sea.”

— Antoine de Saint-Exupery


Build projects around motivated people. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done.
 

 ---

 “The great ruler speaks little
and his words are priceless

He works without self-interest
and leaves no trace

When all is finished, the people say,
“It happened by itself”

## Learning

Genuine interest leads to the best learning. Along with a beginner’s mind, spaced repetition, deliberate practice

Learning = spaced repetition

​The secret to learn is to sincerely get excited, regardless of arbitrary measures for success.

Learning should take place when it is needed, when the learner is interested, not according to some arbitrary, fixed schedule ― Donald A. Norman

-> understanding -> calm -> patience -> practice -> skill ->

A worthy goal for a year is to learn enough about a subject so that you can’t believe how ignorant you were a year earlier.

---


Beginner’s Mind

Spaced repetition

Deliberate practice

Separate work from leisure

---

Education is the ability to listen to almost anything without losing your temper or your self-confidence.

Educating the mind without educating the heart is no education at all.

Do not teach, make them think

I have no special talents. I am only passionately curious.

Never memorize something that you can look up.

If you can't explain it to a six year old, you don't understand it yourself.

I have never met a man so ignorant that I couldn't learn something from him.

Sell your cleverness and buy bewilderment.



## Lies 

We lie to ourselves to feel better because it is easier than making something better in reality 

It’s like taking a painkiller instead of solving the root cause

When you accept yourself as you are the urge to lie will disappear

---

cues that someone might be lying, 

Jests, mimics, fake smiles, too little or too much eye contact

Liers may look down, lower voice, set up a barrier, pepper it with irrelevant details

---

a good way to handle, 

Let go of your anger and contempt

Switch to the curiosity mode

Ask specific questions, go backward

## Love 


Who, being loved, is poor?

Love can't be forced,  
it has to happen naturally

When you truly want them to be well,
even more than yourself 

Love doesn't judge,
it continues despite the shortcomings

Love is to grow together

Love is fragile, 
careless words harm it, 
watch what you say and do 

Love is precious, 
if you love, don't let it go

It twists the mind, 
clouds thinking 

What a great luxury,
to hold your loved ones

When separated,
You see its depth 

Tis better to have loved and lost, 
Than never to have loved at all.

Everybody is going to hurt you; you just gotta find the ones worth suffering for.


## Materialism

The things you used to own, now they own you.

Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough


## Meditation 

It's about feeling the moment and clearing the mind. Thinking and writing are great ways. 

## Mental models 

Invert

Marginal utility

Bias for action

Sperm and egg

Hammer-nail

Attention traps is like bacteria, marketing slogans, slot machines, headlines

When systems look broken, it’s often because the function they’re really trying to serve is not what we think. Schools, hospitals, politics..


Ignore sunk costs 

take the impossible and make it costly 

randomness as the heart of creativity 

once you got somewhere happy, it would be stupid to shake it up further 

cool off slowly 

Spend the afternoon, you cant take it with you 

In the long run, optimism is the best prevention for regret

explore vs exploit 

All human knowledge is uncertain, inexact, partial 

---

1. The Map is not the Territory
2. Circle of Competence, understand what you know and what you don't know
3. First Principles Thinking, understand the fundemantals
4. Thought Experiment
5. Second-Order Thinking, long term thinking, unintended consequences
6. Probabilistic Thinking, probability runs the world
7. Inversion, turn it upside down
8. Occam’s Razor, Simpler explanations are more likely to be true than complicated ones.
9. Hanlon’s Razor, we should not attribute to malice that which is more easily explained by stupidity.
**Physics and Chemistry**
1. Reciprocity, humans beings act with intense reciprocity demonstrated as well.
2. Thermodynamics, energy is constant and entropy is ever increasing
3. Inertia, objects and people display the same effect. The first move is harder
4. Friction and Viscosity
5. Velocity
6. Leverage, almost every great work includes leverage
7. Activation Energy, the minimum to start
8. Catalysts
9. Alloying, alloy can be better than its parts
10. Relativity, an observer cannot truly understand a system of which he himself is a part.
**Biology**
1. Evolution, adaptationarms race among competing species is called the Red Queen Effect for the character in Alice in Wonderland who said, “Now, here, you see, it takes all the running you can do, to keep in the same place.
2. Ecosystems
3. NichesUsually, a species will select a niche for which it is best adapted
4. Self-Preservation
5. Replication
6. Cooperation
7. Hierarchical Organization
8. Incentives
9. Tendency to Minimize Energy Output (Mental & Physical)
**Systems**
1. Feedback Loops
2. Bottlenecks and Constraints
3. Homeostasis and Equilibrium
4. Scale
5. Law of Diminishing Returns
6. Churn
7. Preferential Attachment (Cumulative Advantage)
8. Irreducibility
9. Margin of Safety and Backup Systems
10. Algorithms
11. Criticality
12. Emergence
**Math**
1. Distributions
2. Compounding
3. Law of Large Numbers
4. Multiplying by Zero
5. Algebraic Equivalence, Seemingly two different things can be the same
6. Randomness
7. Regression to the Mean
8. Surface Area
9. Global and Local Maxima
**Microeconomics**
1. Opportunity Costs
2. Creative Destruction
3. Comparative Advantage
4. Specialization (Pin Factory)
5. Seizing the Middle
6. Utility (Marginal, Diminishing, Increasing)
7. Trademarks, Patents, and Copyrights
8. Double-Entry Bookkeeping
9. Scarcity
10. Supply and Demand
11. Mr. Market
**Military**
1. Seeing the Front
2. Asymmetric Warfare
3. Two-Front War
4. Counterinsurgency
5. Mutually Assured Destruction

---

 https://fs.blog/mental-models/

https://www.perell.com/blog/50 ideas that changed my life

How to choose the right thinking tool - Untools


## Misfortune 

Life is not a matter of holding good cards, but of playing a poor hand well.

It's not the load that breaks you down, it's the way you carry it.

May it be a light to you in dark places, when all other lights go out.

## Mistakes 

You need a lot of mistakes for a few good moves, a lot bad ideas for a few good ideas. 

Do not fear making mistakes, do not regret mistakes, you are growing a mistake at a time 

The more you do it, the better you get

"I make mistakes. I say stupid things. I contradict myself even when thinking deeply and rigorously. I change my mind. I get irrationally angry or sad. I say things I don't mean and regret it. I'm human."

Admit responsibility. Fix your mistake Do not make it again

action -> mistake -> experience -> confidence

Don't be sorry, improve yourself.

Wisdom comes from experience. Experience is often a result of lack of wisdom.

---



If you are making mistakes...you're Doing Something.

Learn from the mistakes of others. You can never live long enough to make them all yourself.

Make your mistakes, take your chances, look silly, but keep on going. Don’t freeze up.

walk slow but walk 

Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional.



## Mindful

Observe your thoughts and feelings

Notice a craving, clarify it, and let it go 

Watch your own thoughts from a distance

Mindful, grateful, positive 

Some people feel the rain. Others just get wet.

The world is full of magic things, patiently waiting for our senses to grow sharper.


It's a dangerous business, Frodo, going out your door. You step onto the road, and if you don't keep your feet, there's no knowing where you might be swept off to.


## Negotiations 

You are in charge when you listen

It’s not a battle, build rapport

Notice emotions, settle, let go 

Ask open-ended questions 

Think before speaking 

Use silence 

Listen, label, paraphrase

Get in their shoes

Assumptions out, hypothesis in 

To quiet your head, focus on the partner 

Smile, positivity is contagious 

---


Understand the market.

Understand your options.

Understand their options.

Decide on your absolute walk-away outcome.

Decide on your ideal outcome.

Negotiate with absolute integrity.

## Pain 

The pain is neither unbearable nor unending, as long as you keep in mind its limits and don't magnify them in your imagination.

## Parenting

what you do, what you say. Actions speak louder than words 

Children learn more from what you are than what you teach.

Whatever you say or advice, children will disregard your words and pay attention to your actions. 

Thus the way to raise honest, brave, kind, hardworking, loving children is to be like this yourself because they will look at what you do more than what you say 

Children aren’t fragile, they should learn how to solve problems, how to manage things on their own 

Ignorance isn’t stupidity

if you have a rule, explain the reason, life is much easier when they are convinced

wait a bit before buying something, because they don't really want most things. having a 1 month rule is useful.

Remember a child is very vulnerable 

Let a child be angry. Be patient 

Make sure they are not too compliant 

a way to teach responsibility is to take them seriously and treat them with respect. it makes them feel like grown-ups and they love it 

let a child  be angry, do not yell, remember that they are children and you are the adult  

some great reads 

[How Inuit Parents Raise Kids Without Yelling — And Teach Them To Control Anger : Goats and Soda : NPR](https://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2019/03/13/685533353/a-playful-way-to-teach-kids-to-control-their-anger)

<http://fallibleideas.com/taking-children-seriously>


## People 

The most beautiful people we have known are those who have known defeat, known suffering, known struggle, known loss, and have found their way out of the depths. These persons have an appreciation, a sensitivity, and an understanding of life that fills them with compassion, gentleness, and a deep loving concern. Beautiful people do not just happen.

Despise The Free Lunch

Emotions are contagious

Anger burns you first

People will never forget how you made them feel

Don't think or judge, just listen. Social skills naturally arise from genuine empathy 

Be kind, not clever

People see what they look for, and hear what they listen for. They don't want to hear the truth. They hear what they want to hear anyway 

Reciprocity is central. Put sunshine get sunshine. Put storm get blizzard. 

Accept people as they are. 

## Perfection 

And now that you don't have to be perfect, you can be good.


## Perspective

The mind is its own place, and in itself can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven..

There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.

The world as we have created it is a process of our thinking. It cannot be changed without changing our thinking.

You become who you believe you are. You do what you believe you can do.

Perspective is reality 

Perception is reality 

Everything we hear is an opinion, not a fact. Everything we see is a perspective, not the truth.

Those who cannot change their minds cannot change anything.


There are no facts, only interpretations.

Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one.

## Persuasion

Methods of persuasion

inspiration, 

logic, 

collaboration, 

participation, 

personal appeals, 

exchange, 

order, 

pressure 

## Plan 

A goal without a plan is just a wish.

Antoine de Saint-Exupéry

## Poetry 

Poetry is what gets lost in translation.


## Porn 


* frequent porn consumption literally changes brain structure, neurochemical balance, numbs pleasure response, decreases willpower, increases porn sensitivity (just like drugs)
* key driver of people quitting porn: erectile dysfunction aka ED (over time, brain sends weaker and weaker signals to penis)
* older men recover from ED faster than younger men (2-3 vs 4-5 months) because they started watching at later age; older men didn’t start having ED problems until they got high-speed internet (!)
* teen brains more vulnerable: higher dopamine levels, higher neuroplasticity

## Power 

Power is two sided, ability for great good often comes with ability for great evil. 

The flip side of enabling great good is enabling great evil

---

“Whoever is winning at the moment will always seem to be invincible.”

George Orwell

---

Soft power 

ability to attract and co-opt, rather than coerce (contrast hard power). It involves shaping the preferences of others through appeal and attraction. Easy way to run the world

The most common way people give up their power is by thinking they don't have any.

---

Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large groups.



## Prioritize 

What’s most important to you? Eliminate everything else.

What I don’t want?


## Probability 

Judge less, accept more. 

Less “I know”, more “It seems, maybe, probably” 

What you want isn't always best for you 

Limits are imaginary

Humble, adaptable, long term thinking, skepticism 

You never know what worse luck your bad luck has saved you from.

## Problem Solving


prevention is the best

A clever person solves a problem. A wise person avoids it.


Solve problems before they become problems 

Don't panic

start with a sanity check

ask a lot of questions

state the problem clearly

state your assumptions

question assumptions

start small

a simple example

a simple solution

Complex is the sum of many simple steps

Go see the source

Seek the root cause.

Ask why why why why why

take a walk

---

Why is this a problem?

Is there an easier way?

What makes it hard to solve? 

Does it have to be solved?

Does it have to be done this way?

Can you cut the knot ?

Diagrams

Photos

Graphs 

How to explain it to a 6 years old? 


Hard problems demand imagining easier versions, not spinning wheels 

## Public speaking 

Focus on the audience 

Speak slow, deep, warm, passionate

Short and sweet 

## Reading 

The aim of reading is not to accept and agree with all we read. 

We should think on the material, and draw our own conclusions.


## Reason

who is slow yet quick, merry yet grave -> who follows the reason as a guide 


## Regrets 

Neither blame yourself nor others

Forgive yourself, forgive others. 

Be kind to yourself. If you won’t, who will? 

Learn and move on 

In the long run, optimism is the best prevention for regret

## Relationships 

Successful relationships tend to bring up even little things that bother them. They don’t let things slide, they continually try to repair their relationship
## Resilience 

In the depth of winter, I finally learned that within me there lay an invincible summer.

## Rotting 

"The creatures outside looked from pig to man, and from man to pig, and from pig to man again; but already it was impossible to say which was which."


## Scarcity 

Being good at something doesn’t promise rewards. What’s rewarded in the world is scarcity

## Secrets

If you want to keep a secret, you must also hide it from yourself.

## Simplicity

Live simply. Remove all nonessentials. Talk less, do less, think less. Recharge

Very little is needed to make a happy life; it is all within yourself, in your way of thinking. - Marcus Aurelius 

Experiences make us happier than material things. Happiness from an experience lasts longer. Material things are the worst kind of hedonic adaptation. 

The price of anything is the amount of life you exchange for it - Henry David Thoreau

Simple ideas govern complex systems

Like all magnificent things, it's very simple.


Everything must be made as simple as possible. But not simpler.


## Sleep 

Alcohol reduces sleep quality, it is one of the worst suppressors of deep sleep 

Happiness consists in getting enough sleep. 

## Smoking

Such a disgustingh waste of time yet I have smoked almost 150 packs through years and inhaled lots of poison for nothing 

## Status 

Universities are not selling education, they are selling membership in an exclusive club.

## Story telling 

Good stories include a change in fortune, a rise and fall, or a fall and rise

## Success

"Success is stumbling from failure to failure with no loss of enthusiasm."

Success is getting what you want, happiness is wanting what you get

Enjoy the journey and don't fret over the results 

"To leave the world a bit better whether by a healthy child, a garden patch, or a redeemed social condition; to know that one life has breathed easier because you lived here. This is to have succeeded.” ― Ralph Waldo Emerson

## Thoughtful 

Words are irreversible

Think twice before you speak

Be careful with promises



## Time

A great way to spend money is to buy time

Think of yourself as dead. Now take what's left, and live it properly. - Marcus Aurelius 

Life is not short but we waste most of it

Think long term and compound 

How alarmed would you be if you only a few years ahead, and how carefully would they use them! You may have even less time in reality

You are how you spend your time.

Time and attention are the most valuable resources 

---

It’s no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then.

All that we see or seem is but a dream within a dream.

All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.

Don’t waste your time in anger, regrets, worries, and grudges. Life is too short to be unhappy.

A man who dares to waste one hour of time has not discovered the value of life.

Time is the longest distance between two places.

Look at everything always as though you were seeing it either for the first or last time: Thus is your time on earth filled with glory.

What is the point of being alive if you don't at least try to do something remarkable?

Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?

Spring is the time of plans and projects.

It is not the length of life, but the depth.

if you don’t spend your life yourself, other people spend it for you.


## Trust 

How to spread trust?

What the game is defines what the players do

more interactions >5 

more reward for cooperation 

less gain from cheating

be a little forgiving

Build relationships. Find win-wins. Communicate clearly. 

to live and let live

## Truth 

In a time of deceit telling the truth is a revolutionary act.

Tell the truth, or someone will tell it for you.

Whoever is careless with the truth in small matters cannot be trusted with important matters

Better a cruel truth than a comfortable delusion.

Above all, don't lie to yourself. The man who lies to himself and listens to his own lie comes to a point that he cannot distinguish the truth within him, or around him, and so loses all respect for himself and for others. And having no respect he ceases to love.

If you want to tell people the truth, make them laugh, otherwise they'll kill you.

All the world is made of faith, and trust, and pixie dust.

Believe nothing you hear, and only one half that you see.

The more I see, the less I know


## Uncertainty

Most people will choose unhappiness over uncertainty.

## Violence

People don’t hate violence, they love it in the right context 

Violence is the last refuge of the incompetent.


## War 

Only the dead have seen the end of war.

The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.

Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding.


## Wealth

Wealth brings happiness by giving it away



## Work 

Clarity, purpose, freedom, autonomy, mastery 


---

It takes years to become a great engineer, designer, writer, painter.

But it only takes days to become communicative, reliable, and nice to be around — which will put you above 90% of your peers.

---

What pain do you want in your life? What are you willing to struggle for?

The question is, “What pain do you want to sustain?” Not “What do you want to enjoy?” 

Don’t think about how proud you would be to run a marathon. Question whether you like running.

---

Follow your inner drive yet  do not hastily give all till nothing left 

Ignore the rat race

Do business with people you like. It’s great.

---

isolation of work from leisure

Elite players train deliberately. 

They don't mix work and leisure

The average players spread their work throughout the day.

---

If you’re good at something, never do it for free.

Your Professional Decline Is Coming (Much) Sooner Than You Think

Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion. - Parkinson’s Law

Goldilocks zone, The right level of challenge 


## Writing 

For better writing, eliminate, simplify, clarify, and choose your words well

What to write down? 

Don't copy paste, paraphrase, think for yourself 

Instead of arbitrary goals, have some questions , and set out to answer them

How vain it is to sit down to write when you have not stood up to live.

