---
layout: post
title: Time
---

A great way to spend money is to buy time

Think of yourself as dead. Now take what's left, and live it properly. - Marcus Aurelius 

Life is not short but we waste most of it

Think long term and compound 

How alarmed would you be if you only a few years ahead, and how carefully would they use them! You may have even less time in reality

You are how you spend your time.

Time and attention are the most valuable resources 

---

It’s no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then.

All that we see or seem is but a dream within a dream.

All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.

Don’t waste your time in anger, regrets, worries, and grudges. Life is too short to be unhappy.

A man who dares to waste one hour of time has not discovered the value of life.

Time is the longest distance between two places.

Look at everything always as though you were seeing it either for the first or last time: Thus is your time on earth filled with glory.

What is the point of being alive if you don't at least try to do something remarkable?

Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?

Spring is the time of plans and projects.

It is not the length of life, but the depth.

If you don’t spend your life yourself, other people spend it for you.

All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.



---


## On the Shortness of Life

Life is not short but we waste it. It is long and sufficient if well invested. life extends when you manage it properly. 

We are not willing to share our money, but careless and wasteful with our time. Since time is intangible, life's most precious commodity is treated very cheap 

A distracted mind can't succesfully pursue any activity, since a distracted mind absorbs nothing deeply 

Review the days of your life and you will notice very few have been left to you.

But the man who lives every day as his last, neither longs for, nor fears the next day. 

Putting things off snatches the present by promising the future. Do not direct your hopes in distant future, do what you can with what you have, where you are. 

Otherwise, you are arranging the future, which is in Fortune's control, and abondoning what lies in yours, the present. The whole future is lies in incertainty, live immediately. 

Feeble old man pray for a few more days, they claim they were fools because have not really lived and if they can recover, they would live peacefully. Then they reflect how pointlessly they acquired things they would never enjoy. 

A good life is to have time for yourself and your loved ones, to be your master, to make time for philosophy, art, and beauty. 

We have only one lifetime but ages of wisdom and enlightenment is here for us. Philosophers, writers, artists, architects, singers, the whole wisdom and beauty of the world is here to be explored and to expand your life beyond your time. 

The past, present, and future. Of these, future is doubtful, present is short, past is certain. 

Material gains come through great toil, and kept by great anxiety. Wisdom, virtue, courage, and beauty you experienced, nothing can take it from you. They are even outside the control of fortune. 

Relentlessly prune bullshit, don't wait to do things that matter, and savor the time you have. That's what you do when life is short.



