---
layout: post
title: Act now  
---

The future depends on what you do today. Do what is right, not what is easy nor what is popular.

Do what you feel in your heart to be right – for you’ll be criticized anyway.

You do not write your life with words...You write it with actions.  What you think is not important.  It is only important what you do

Only what you do matters

Do your little bit of good where you are; it's those little bits of good put together that overwhelm the world.


---

Don’t wait, make a decision now and course-correct

It begins a single step. Stop waiting, start doing.

---

your actions + myriad other factors out of your control = your results 

better to be balanced, to be hopeful but not to the point of greed, to be cautious yet not fearful

---

Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go.

---

It is good to have an end to journey toward; but it is the journey that matters, in the end.


---

A ship is safe in harbor, but that's not what ships are for.

Who is happier, who has braved the storm of life and lived or who has stayed securely on shore and merely existed?

---

Do not go gentle into that good night.

Rage, rage against the dying of the light.

---

"It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat."






