---
layout: post
title: Miscellaneous - On life, universe, and everything 
---

- [Advice](#advice)
- [Age](#age)
- [Analogies](#analogies)
- [Anger](#anger)
- [Art](#art)
- [Ask](#ask)
- [Anxiety](#anxiety)
- [Beauty](#beauty)
- [Change](#change)
- [Children](#children)
- [Choice](#choice)
- [Climate change](#climate-change)
- [Computational kindness](#computational-kindness)
- [Conflict](#conflict)
- [Consider beginnings](#consider-beginnings)
- [Criticism](#criticism)
- [Death](#death)
- [Desire](#desire)
- [Difficult conversations](#difficult-conversations)
- [Envy](#envy)
- [Exercise](#exercise)
- [Feedback](#feedback)
- [Finance](#finance)
- [Flow](#flow)
- [Focus](#focus)
- [Freedom](#freedom)
- [Friendship](#friendship)
- [Future](#future)
- [Growth](#growth)
- [Habits](#habits)
- [Health](#health)
- [Help](#help)
- [Hope](#hope)
- [Ideas](#ideas)
- [Ignorance](#ignorance)
- [Know your limits](#know-your-limits)
- [Leadership](#leadership)
- [Learning](#learning)
- [Let it go](#let-it-go)
- [Lies](#lies)
- [Love](#love)
- [Materialism](#materialism)
- [Mistakes](#mistakes)
- [Mindful](#mindful)
- [Negotiations](#negotiations)
- [Pain](#pain)
- [Perfection](#perfection)
- [Perspective](#perspective)
- [Persuasion](#persuasion)
- [Plan](#plan)
- [Poetry](#poetry)
- [Porn](#porn)
- [Power](#power)
- [Prioritize](#prioritize)
- [Probability](#probability)
- [Problem Solving](#problem-solving)
- [Public speaking](#public-speaking)
- [Reading](#reading)
- [Reason](#reason)
- [Relationships](#relationships)
- [Resilience](#resilience)
- [Rotting](#rotting)
- [Rules](#rules)
- [Scarcity](#scarcity)
- [Secrets](#secrets)
- [Simplicity](#simplicity)
- [Sleep](#sleep)
- [Smoking](#smoking)
- [Status](#status)
- [Story telling](#story-telling)
- [Style](#style)
- [Success](#success)
- [Thoughtful](#thoughtful)
- [Traffic](#traffic)
- [Uncertainty](#uncertainty)
- [Violence](#violence)
- [War](#war)
- [Wealth](#wealth)
- [Wisdom](#wisdom)
- [Work](#work)
- [Writing](#writing)

Some quotations are without sources, I don't claim ownership for anything here, the ideas are what's important

> The story so far: 
> In the beginning the Universe was created. 
> This has made a lot of people very angry 
> and been widely regarded as a bad move.


## Advice 

Give support, not advice

The quality of any advice anybody has to offer has to be judged against the quality of life they actually lead.

## Age 

...inside every old person is a young person wondering what happened.


## Alcohol

Drink when you are happy, your sorrows know how to swim 

## Analogies

Great tools, use them, yet an analogy is only partly true, so they are not to be taken too literally 

## Anger 


The longer I live, the more I observe that carrying around anger is the most debilitating to the person who bears it.

Why should we feel anger at the world? As if the world would notice.


## Art 

Almost every human activity is an art, and only genuine interest and passion creates beautiful art

Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.

## Ask 

What you seek is seeking you. Ask for what you want and be prepared to get it!

## Anxiety

Anxiety is the dizziness of freedom.

Worrying doesn’t make it one bit better, use your energy to act instead

Don't be over anxious, most things are not worth to be anxious, relax 

Today I escaped from anxiety. Or no, I discarded it, because it was within me, in my own perceptions-not outside.

How much pain the evils have cost us that have never happened!


## Beauty

I've found that there is always some beauty left -- in nature, sunshine, freedom, in yourself; these can all help you.

"Youth is happy because it has the capacity to see beauty. Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old."

Think of all the beauty still left around you and be happy.


## Change 

You don’t have to be the person you were yesterday 

## Children 

A child can teach an adult three things: 

to be happy for no reason, 

to always be busy with something,

to know how to demand with all his might that which he desires.

---


what you do, what you say. Actions speak louder than words 

Children learn more from what you are than what you teach.

Whatever you say or advice, children will disregard your words and pay attention to your actions. 

Thus the way to raise honest, brave, kind, hardworking, loving children is to be like this yourself because they will look at what you do more than what you say 

Children aren’t fragile, they should learn how to solve problems, how to manage things on their own 

Times are bad. Children no longer obey their parents, and everyone is writing a book - Cicero 

Ignorance isn’t stupidity

if you have a rule, explain the reason, life is much easier when they are convinced

wait a bit before buying something, because they don't really want most things. having a 1 month rule is useful.

Remember a child is very vulnerable 

Let a child be angry. Be patient 

Make sure they are not too compliant 

a way to teach responsibility is to take them seriously and treat them with respect. it makes them feel like grown-ups and they love it 

let a child  be angry, do not yell, remember that they are children and you are the adult  

some great reads 

[How Inuit Parents Raise Kids Without Yelling — And Teach Them To Control Anger : Goats and Soda : NPR](https://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2019/03/13/685533353/a-playful-way-to-teach-kids-to-control-their-anger)

<http://fallibleideas.com/taking-children-seriously>




## Choice 

“Everything can be taken from a man but one thing: the last of the human freedoms—to choose one’s attitude in any given set of circumstances, to choose one’s own way.” 

― Viktor E. Frankl
## Climate change 

The idea of a "personal carbon footprint" was popularized by BP, the world's 6th largest polluter. They knew that passing the buck onto "individual responsibility" ensured they would never be held accountable.






## Computational kindness


reduce options

politely assert what you want 

do not try to simulate other minds, do not make people simulate yours 




## Conflict 

Emotions are contagious. Put sunshine, get sunshine 

Slow to anger, quick to calm

Pick your battles 

Simply ask them to thoroughly explain their idea until they notice the flaw themselves 



## Consider beginnings 

Treat small as big, treat few as much 





## Criticism 

"Whenever you feel like criticizing any one," he told me, "just remember that all the people in this world haven't had the advantages that you've had.


## Death 

Life is short and there might be no tomorrow morning for you 

“Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart.” 
― Steve Jobs

We're all going to die, all of us, what a circus! That alone should make us love each other but it doesn't. We are terrorized and flattened by trivialities, we are eaten up by nothing.

I do not fear death. I had been dead for billions of years before I was born, without the slightest inconvenience.

## Desire 

You’ll get it when you no longer want it.

## Difficult conversations

Have that difficult conversation. Listen without defensiveness when they criticize you. Name the elephant in the room. Get rejected. And feel it all. You will feel relieved and alive. 

Bitter truths are healing 




## Envy

Society shames envy, yet we all feel it and don't talk about it. 

Whenever you feel envious, get specific. 

What exactly are you envious? 

Mostly it's just a small part of a life. 

Getting specific enables you to replace envy with understanding. 

## Exercise

Exercise is a wonder drug.

The reason you don't have energy to workout is because you don't workout.

## Feedback 

Be strategic with the feedback you listen to

A change of perspective is worth 80 IQ points.


## Finance 

Not all costs are financial. Time, attention, mental and emotional energy are much more valuable

## Flow 

Do it for its own sake 

Do not expect to “get” anything 

Do not expect to be better 

One-up ? 

Play the game 

Ego is part of the play, like a cloud, a wave, a mountain 

Live as if you listen to music, or you play music 

The aim is the play itself 


## Focus 

Human brain is single threaded

Do one thing and do it well 

---

The mind seems to like to generalise. 

We describe things vaguely. 

When we say a nice person, a great job, or a fun date, well this is not false but not specific. 

Being vague prevents us from truly understanding people and situations. So focus, ask yourself, what I **really** mean.





## Freedom 

Freedom is to conquer your dark side, your anger, greed, hubris, .. 

“To be free from convention is not to spurn it but not to be deceived by it. It is to be able to use it as an instrument instead of being used by it.”

Thinking ability creates free will

Freedom is not worth having if it does not include the freedom to make mistakes.

I am free and that is why I am lost.

you don't have to do anything, if you face the consequences

These violent delights have violent ends


## Friendship 

Respect and trust. Both elements have to be there. And it has to be mutual. 
You can have respect for someone, but if you don't have trust, the friendship will crumble.

Rare as is true love, true friendship is rarer.

Friendship marks a life even more deeply than love. Love risks degenerating into obsession, friendship is never anything but sharing.

Walk beside me… just be my friend

Count your age by friends, not years. 

## Future 

The future is here but not evenly distributed

If you want to live in the future, live in the freest place around. Because eventually, all of the innovators and creators will show up there.

Let not future troubles you, for you will have the same reason 



## Growth 

Replace the model with a better one, strenghten a weak link

It is never too late, get up and walk 

Prevent the worst

Get rid of the worst 

## Habits 

To break a bad habit, focus and feel the habit 

Gain good habits

Make it easy, make it visible, and rewarding 

Stack habits 




## Health 

Life is extremely fragile. It's too easy to take good health for granted.

A fit, healthy body is the best fashion statement



## Help 

Put your own oxygen mask on first.


## Hope 

I'd rather be an optimist and wrong than a pessimist and right.

Hope yet remember that hope is not a strategy 

## Ideas 

great ideas = reordering existing + connecting together + right timing

Examine, select, and use all good ideas  

Listening and speaking clarifies thoughts, 

Taking a walk speaking with a friend is a great way to think. 

A lot of good ideas come in shower, or in a train, or walking

Good ideas are like butterflies, 

they can come near when you are not consciously looking for them 

Thoughts come in bits and pieces. 

If we don't note them down, they will lost in the wind

We shouldn't be looking for heroes, we should be looking for good ideas.


## Ignorance

Confidence is ignorance. If you're feeling cocky, it's because there's something you don't know.

All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence; then success is sure.

Education: the path from cocky ignorance to miserable uncertainty.



## Know your limits


"Begin at the beginning," the King said, very gravely, "and go on till you come to the end: then stop.


Accept what is in your control and don’t worry for the rest 

You don’t have to be perfect, good enough is good 

Get one bit better, keep walking

## Leadership

Leadership is like gardening. You plant the seeds and water them. The growing part is on the plant.

Seeds can become giant trees, yet you can’t force it. 

All you can do is to encourage, to protect, to provide the environment, and to remove obstacles.


“If you want to build a ship, don't drum up people to collect wood and don't assign them tasks and work, but rather teach them to long for the endless immensity of the sea.”

— Antoine de Saint-Exupery


Build projects around motivated people. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done.
 

 ---

 “The great ruler speaks little
and his words are priceless

He works without self-interest
and leaves no trace

When all is finished, the people say,
“It happened by itself”

## Learning

Genuine interest leads to the best learning. Along with a beginner’s mind, spaced repetition, deliberate practice

Learning = spaced repetition

​The secret to learn is to sincerely get excited, regardless of arbitrary measures for success.

Learning should take place when it is needed, when the learner is interested, not according to some arbitrary, fixed schedule ― Donald A. Norman

-> understanding -> calm -> patience -> practice -> skill ->

A worthy goal for a year is to learn enough about a subject so that you can’t believe how ignorant you were a year earlier.

---


Beginner’s Mind

Spaced repetition

Deliberate practice

Separate work from leisure

---

Education is the ability to listen to almost anything without losing your temper or your self-confidence.

Educating the mind without educating the heart is no education at all.

Do not teach, make them think

I have no special talents. I am only passionately curious.

Never memorize something that you can look up.

If you can't explain it to a six year old, you don't understand it yourself.

I have never met a man so ignorant that I couldn't learn something from him.

Sell your cleverness and buy bewilderment.



## Let it go 

That is why it is so important to let certain things go. 
To release them. To cut loose. 
People need to understand that no one is playing with marked cards; 
sometimes we win and sometimes we lose. 
Don't expect to get anything back, 
don't expect recognition for your efforts, 
don't expect your genius to be discovered or your love to be understood. 
Complete the circle. 
Not out of pride, inability or arrogance, 
but simply because whatever it is no longer fits in your life. 
Close the door, change the record, clean the house, get rid of the dust. 
Stop being who you were and become who you are.

You must make a decision that you are going to move on. It wont happen automatically. You will have to rise up and say ‘I don’t care how hard this is, I don’t care how disappointed I am, I’m not going to let this get the best of me. I’m moving on with my life.’

## Lies 

We lie to ourselves to feel better because it is easier than making something better in reality 

It’s like taking a painkiller instead of solving the root cause

When you accept yourself as you are the urge to lie will disappear

---

cues that someone might be lying, 

Jests, mimics, fake smiles, too little or too much eye contact

Liers may look down, lower voice, set up a barrier, pepper it with irrelevant details

---

a good way to handle, 

Let go of your anger and contempt

Switch to the curiosity mode

Ask specific questions, go backward

## Love 


Who, being loved, is poor?

Love can't be forced,  
it has to happen naturally

When you truly want them to be well,
even more than yourself 

Love doesn't judge,
it continues despite the shortcomings

Love is to grow together

Love is fragile, 
careless words harm it, 
watch what you say and do 

Love is precious, 
if you love, don't let it go

It twists the mind, 
clouds thinking 

What a great luxury,
to hold your loved ones

When separated,
You see its depth 

Tis better to have loved and lost, 
Than never to have loved at all.

Everybody is going to hurt you; you just gotta find the ones worth suffering for.


## Materialism

The things you used to own, now they own you.

Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough




## Mistakes 

You need a lot of mistakes for a few good moves, a lot bad ideas for a few good ideas. 

Do not fear making mistakes, do not regret mistakes, you are growing a mistake at a time 

The more you do it, the better you get

"I make mistakes. I say stupid things. I contradict myself even when thinking deeply and rigorously. I change my mind. I get irrationally angry or sad. I say things I don't mean and regret it. I'm human."

Admit responsibility. Fix your mistake Do not make it again

action -> mistake -> experience -> confidence

Don't be sorry, improve yourself.

Wisdom comes from experience. Experience is often a result of lack of wisdom.

---



If you are making mistakes...you're Doing Something.

Learn from the mistakes of others. You can never live long enough to make them all yourself.

Make your mistakes, take your chances, look silly, but keep on going. Don’t freeze up.

walk slow but walk 

Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional.



## Mindful

Observe your thoughts and feelings

Notice a craving, clarify it, and let it go 

Watch your own thoughts from a distance

Mindful, grateful, positive 

Some people feel the rain. Others just get wet.

The world is full of magic things, patiently waiting for our senses to grow sharper.


It's a dangerous business, Frodo, going out your door. You step onto the road, and if you don't keep your feet, there's no knowing where you might be swept off to.

## Money 

This planet had a problem, most of the people were unhappy for much of the time. Many solutions were suggested for this problem, but most of these were largely concerned with the movement of small green pieces of paper, which was odd because on the whole it wasn't the small green pieces of paper that were unhappy.

## Music

One of the tragedies of real life is that there is no background music.

## Negotiations 

You are in charge when you listen

It’s not a battle, build rapport

Notice emotions, settle, let go 

Ask open-ended questions 

Think before speaking 

Use silence 

Listen, label, paraphrase

Get in their shoes

Assumptions out, hypothesis in 

To quiet your head, focus on the partner 

Smile, positivity is contagious 

---


Understand the market.

Understand your options.

Understand their options.

Decide on your absolute walk-away outcome.

Decide on your ideal outcome.

Negotiate with absolute integrity.

## Pain 

The pain is neither unbearable nor unending, as long as you keep in mind its limits and don't magnify them in your imagination.

Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional.




## Perfection 

And now that you don't have to be perfect, you can be good.


## Perspective

The mind is its own place, and in itself can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven..

There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.

The world as we have created it is a process of our thinking. It cannot be changed without changing our thinking.

You become who you believe you are. You do what you believe you can do.

Perspective is reality 

Perception is reality 

Everything we hear is an opinion, not a fact. Everything we see is a perspective, not the truth.

Those who cannot change their minds cannot change anything.

There are no facts, only interpretations.

Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one.

## Persuasion

Methods of persuasion

inspiration, 

logic, 

collaboration, 

participation, 

personal appeals, 

exchange, 

order, 

pressure 

## Plan 

A goal without a plan is just a wish. - Antoine de Saint-Exupéry

Nobody panics when things go “according to plan”. Even if the plan is horrifying.

## Poetry 

Poetry is what gets lost in translation.


## Porn 


* frequent porn consumption literally changes brain structure, neurochemical balance, numbs pleasure response, decreases willpower, increases porn sensitivity (just like drugs)
* key driver of people quitting porn: erectile dysfunction aka ED (over time, brain sends weaker and weaker signals to penis)
* older men recover from ED faster than younger men (2-3 vs 4-5 months) because they started watching at later age; older men didn’t start having ED problems until they got high-speed internet (!)
* teen brains more vulnerable: higher dopamine levels, higher neuroplasticity

## Power 

Power is two sided, ability for great good often comes with ability for great evil. 

The flip side of enabling great good is enabling great evil

---

“Whoever is winning at the moment will always seem to be invincible.”

George Orwell

---

Soft power 

ability to attract and co-opt, rather than coerce (contrast hard power). It involves shaping the preferences of others through appeal and attraction. Easy way to run the world

The most common way people give up their power is by thinking they don't have any.

---

Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large groups.



## Prioritize 

What’s most important to you? Eliminate everything else.

What I don’t want?


## Probability 

Judge less, accept more. 

Less “I know”, more “It seems, maybe, probably” 

What you want isn't always best for you 

Limits are imaginary

Humble, adaptable, long term thinking, skepticism 

You never know what worse luck your bad luck has saved you from.

## Problem Solving


prevention is the best

A clever person solves a problem. A wise person avoids it.


Solve problems before they become problems 

Don't panic

start with a sanity check

ask a lot of questions

state the problem clearly

state your assumptions

question assumptions

start small

a simple example

a simple solution

Complex is the sum of many simple steps

Go see the source

Seek the root cause.

Ask why why why why why

take a walk

---

Why is this a problem?

Is there an easier way?

What makes it hard to solve? 

Does it have to be solved?

Does it have to be done this way?

Can you cut the knot ?

Diagrams

Photos

Graphs 

How to explain it to a 6 years old? 


Hard problems demand imagining easier versions, not spinning wheels 

## Public speaking 

Focus on the audience 

Speak slow, deep, warm, passionate

Short and sweet 

## Reading 

The aim of reading is not to accept and agree with all we read. 

We should think on the material, and draw our own conclusions.


## Reason

who is slow yet quick, merry yet grave -> who follows the reason as a guide 


## Relationships 

Successful relationships tend to bring up even little things that bother them. They don’t let things slide, they continually try to repair their relationship
## Resilience 

In the depth of winter, I finally learned that within me there lay an invincible summer.

## Rotting 

"The creatures outside looked from pig to man, and from man to pig, and from pig to man again; but already it was impossible to say which was which."

## Rules 

Any fool can make a rule and and any fool will mind it

## Scarcity 

Being good at something doesn’t promise rewards. What’s rewarded in the world is scarcity

## Secrets

If you want to keep a secret, you must also hide it from yourself.

## Simplicity

Live simply. Remove all nonessentials. Talk less, do less, think less. Recharge

Very little is needed to make a happy life; it is all within yourself, in your way of thinking. - Marcus Aurelius 

Experiences make us happier than material things. Happiness from an experience lasts longer. Material things are the worst kind of hedonic adaptation. 

The price of anything is the amount of life you exchange for it - Henry David Thoreau

Simple ideas govern complex systems

Like all magnificent things, it's very simple.


Everything must be made as simple as possible. But not simpler.


## Sleep 

Alcohol reduces sleep quality, it is one of the worst suppressors of deep sleep 

Happiness consists in getting enough sleep. 

## Smoking

Such a disgustingh waste of time yet I have smoked almost 150 packs through years and inhaled lots of poison for nothing 

## Status 

Universities are not selling education, they are selling membership in an exclusive club.

## Story telling 

Good stories include a change in fortune, a rise and fall, or a fall and rise

## Style 

Style. That’s what people remember.

Clothes make the man. Naked people have little or no influence on society.


## Success

"Success is stumbling from failure to failure with no loss of enthusiasm."

Success is getting what you want, happiness is wanting what you get

Enjoy the journey and don't fret over the results 


---


For instance, on the planet Earth, 
man had always assumed that he was more intelligent than dolphins 
because he had achieved so much, the wheel, New York, wars and so on, 

whilst all the dolphins had ever done was muck about in the water having a good time. 
But conversely, the dolphins had always believed that they were far more intelligent than man, 
for precisely the same reasons.

---

"To leave the world a bit better whether by a healthy child, a garden patch, or a redeemed social condition; to know that one life has breathed easier because you lived here. This is to have succeeded.” ― Ralph Waldo Emerson



## Thoughtful 

Words are irreversible

Think twice before you speak

Be careful with promises



## Traffic 

Have you ever noticed that anybody driving slower than you is an idiot, and anyone going faster than you is a maniac?


## Uncertainty

Most people will choose unhappiness over uncertainty.

## Violence

People don’t hate violence, they love it in the right context 

Violence is the last refuge of the incompetent.


## War 

Only the dead have seen the end of war.

The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.

Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding.


## Wealth

Wealth brings happiness by giving it away

## Wisdom 

When I was a boy of 14, my father was so ignorant I could hardly stand to have the old man around. 

But when I got to be 21, I was astonished at how much the old man had learned in seven years.


## Work 

Clarity, purpose, freedom, autonomy, mastery 


---

It takes years to become a great engineer, designer, writer, painter.

But it only takes days to become communicative, reliable, and nice to be around — which will put you above 90% of your peers.

---

What pain do you want in your life? What are you willing to struggle for?

The question is, “What pain do you want to sustain?” Not “What do you want to enjoy?” 

Don’t think about how proud you would be to run a marathon. Question whether you like running.

---

Follow your inner drive yet  do not hastily give all till nothing left 

Ignore the rat race

The trouble with being in the rat race is that even if you win, you’re still a rat.

Do business with people you like. It’s great.

---

isolation of work from leisure

Elite players train deliberately. 

They don't mix work and leisure

The average players spread their work throughout the day.

---

If you’re good at something, never do it for free.

Your Professional Decline Is Coming (Much) Sooner Than You Think

Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion. - Parkinson’s Law

Goldilocks zone, The right level of challenge 


## Writing 

For better writing, eliminate, simplify, clarify, and choose your words well

What to write down? 

Don't copy paste, paraphrase, think for yourself 

Instead of arbitrary goals, have some questions , and set out to answer them

How vain it is to sit down to write when you have not stood up to live.


> I think I've discovered the secret of life -- you just hang around until you get used to it.
