---
layout: post
title: Work
---


Clarity, purpose, freedom, autonomy, mastery 


---

It takes years to become a great engineer, designer, writer, painter.

But it only takes days to become communicative, reliable, and nice to be around — which will put you above 90% of your peers.

---

What pain do you want in your life? What are you willing to struggle for?

The question is, “What pain do you want to sustain?” Not “What do you want to enjoy?” 

Don’t think about how proud you would be to run a marathon. Question whether you like running.

---

Follow your inner drive yet  do not hastily give all till nothing left 

Ignore the rat race

The trouble with being in the rat race is that even if you win, you’re still a rat.

Do business with people you like. It’s great.

---

isolation of work from leisure

Elite players train deliberately. 

They don't mix work and leisure

The average players spread their work throughout the day.

---

If you’re good at something, never do it for free.

Your Professional Decline Is Coming (Much) Sooner Than You Think

Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion. - Parkinson’s Law

Goldilocks zone, The right level of challenge 

---

the secret of success is looking from other's perpectives

in the aggregate unseen details become visible 

save some easy tasks 

understand what you are doing 

divide projects into modules with definite owners

Reliability = paying attention 

Mark of strength is not to take yourself too seriously


### Praise & Credit

It is amazing what you can accomplish if you do not care who gets credit.

a mature engineer holds the success of the project much higher than the potential praise they may get personally for working on it. 

The attribution of praise or credit can be the source of such dysfunction in an engineering-driven organization, and I believe it’s because it’s largely invisible.

## Egoless  

Understand and accept that you will make mistakes. 

You are not your code.

Don’t rewrite code without consultation. 

Treat people who know less than you with respect, deference, and patience.

Don’t reinforce stereotypes with anger and impatience.

The only constant in the world is change.

The only true authority stems from knowledge, not from position. 

Fight for what you believe, but gracefully accept defeat. 

Don’t be “the coder in the corner.” 

Critique code instead of people – be kind to the coder, not to the code. 


## The Pragmatic Programmer


define requirements well from the start

estimate with due diligence 

keep a log 

do not make promises 

under promise, over deliver 

Gently exceed expectations

Know when to start, wait, and finish 

Take frequent short breaks 

Take notes 

don't rely heavily on anything 

choose good tools and know them well


### Credit where its due  

You don't need to be the best engineer in the world, 

just get good at advertising your people 

and their stories up the chain of command. 

Improve their observability so that you can keep bureaucracy at bay and have a high level of trust.
 
