---
layout: post
title: General  
tags: psychology
---

"Until you make the unconscious conscious, it will direct your life, and you will call it fate."


be a friend to yourself

askers significantly overestimate the interpersonal costs of asking sensitive questions. 

## craving 
1) Be aware of the cravings whenever they appear, detect them and think "I'm feeling I'm having a craving for X."
  
2) Don't fight it. Let the craving rest in your brain and be conscious of it

## attention 
We notice things that are already primed in memory or repeated often. 

Bizarre/funny/visually-striking/anthropomorphic things stick out more than non-bizarre/unfunny things. 

We notice when something has changed.

We are drawn to details that confirm our own existing beliefs. 



 your word is worth more than your weight in gold.

Expect nothing and you’ll never be dissapointed!


Go down the detail by feedback 


Building consensus
Understanding emotions
Having support

Are more important than winning an argument

Do you want to be happy or right?
​
My relationships have improved dramatically now that I only share my time with people who really, really want to share their time with me.

people will never forget how you made them feel.” – Maya Angelou

tag questions
Isn’t it?
Aren’t you?
Couldn’t we?
Don’t you think?

disagree politely, convincingly, and respectfully.

Work shouldn't affect(nor care) about your private time, and vice versa.

People can be competitive and treacherous, so watch what you say, and how much to whom, never talk negatively, especially about others 

Put sunshine get sunshine 

Put storm get blizzard 

The satisfaction of a little rage is never worth the cost.

My friend didn't give me advice... he gave me SUPPORT.

 there is something all people need, and that is to be heard.
 
  communicate your needs respectfully
  
sometimes people just want to be heard above all else

Give glowing, public praise to the work and behavior I want to see more of, rather than complain about what I want to see less.

 It's not the destination it's the journey
 
Whenever in doubt / under stress: default to being professional as possible.

## public speaking 
Talk smiling 

take good breaths

talk slower

open your mouth 

talk louder

change your voice 

convey emotion 

don't talk monotone and boring 

## writing tips
Refuse to use the word “thing.”

No brackets.

Fewer prepositions.

Eliminate redundancy

## presentation
Don’t include any text in your slides

Talk about the slide before you put it up, not after it appears

Never look at the screen

Identify what’s most important to you.

Eliminate everything else.

don't chase many things, keep the essentials, eliminate all else 

It all takes time. And persistence. And patience.


politely assert yourself,

 I feel, I think, I believe, I don't think, I don't know, I know 
 
## Awareness.
watch yourself from a disrance, 

be aware of thoughts and emotions 
​

That’s where it starts. Every time you start drifting off, become aware of it. Just observe your brain. Step outside yourself and just observe the crazy shit you’re thinking about.


 if you are making mistakes...you're Doing Something

today is 100% of your life 

has consequence, has influence

fortune favors the bold -> be bold 

Trying to solve everyone's problems?

"What can I do today, that would make tomorrow better?"
"What can I do right now, that would make the future better?"


Want to learn a new skill? Take some short breaks, early and often



işi oluruna bırakmayışları mutsuzluklarının sebebidir 


do, don’t try
do one thing at a time
do the simplest thing that can
possibly work
do the fruitful few that yields most
do other than same things for
different result
keep doing


What’s the practical use of your thoughts?


practice what it feels like to treat yourself as you might treat a friend.

write down your goals to somewhere you see everyday

The jobs you had, the women you screwed, the countless useless days will disappear and you are left with the adventures. 

 At the end, a pile of money can’t replace the wasted time of sitting around doing a crap job, no matter how much you earn. Get out. Look at the sky, not on the ground. Have adventures.

Pick your battles: Some things are worth fighting over. But most things aren’t.

market yourself, your ideas, achievements, dreams, goals...

“May you live every day of your life.”


People are terrible at mind-reading. 


Don't fly blind. Life is like an open book test: If you fail, you probably didn’t open the book.

do something just because you enjoy it


If you had a son, would you want him to be like you?
If you had a daughter, would you want her to marry a man like you?

If the answer is No to any one of the questions above, you know where you're going wrong.


dont carry baggage, deal with it at the moment

disagree, build trust 

dürüst ol, düşünmediğin, hissetmediğin, inanmadığın şeyi söyleme yapma

The problem is that we are trying to win the wrong game.

“Forgive him, for he believes that the customs of his tribe are the laws of nature!” – George Bernard Shaw

“The question isn't who is going to let me; it's who is going to stop me.”
― Ayn Rand

“What is the point of being alive if you don't at least try to do something remarkable?”

“Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed, citizens can change the world. Indeed, it is the only thing that ever has.”
― Margaret Mead

“There is only one thing that makes a dream impossible to achieve: the fear of failure.”
― Paulo Coelho, The Alchemist


“In the depth of winter, I finally learned that within me there lay an invincible summer.”
― Albert Camus

there is a wish, there is a way.

 Do something everyday that terrifies you

When angry, count ten before you speak; if very angry, a hundred.
—Thomas Jefferson


"don't be sorry, improve yourself."

Talk to strangers! Especially the ones with thoughts you find interesting.

hope itself is often better than what you’re hoping for…

How much pain the evils have cost us that have never happened!


In life, we often find that the price of winning is losing.
