---
layout: post
title: on truth
tags: quotes
category: ideas
--- 

The truth." Dumbledore sighed. "It is a beautiful and terrible thing, and should therefore be treated with great caution.

In a time of deceit telling the truth is a revolutionary act.

Tell the truth, or someone will tell it for you.

Everything we hear is an opinion, not a fact. Everything we see is a perspective, not the truth.

Whoever is careless with the truth in small matters cannot be trusted with important matters

Better a cruel truth than a comfortable delusion.

Above all, don't lie to yourself. The man who lies to himself and listens to his own lie comes to a point that he cannot distinguish the truth within him, or around him, and so loses all respect for himself and for others. And having no respect he ceases to love.

If you want to tell people the truth, make them laugh, otherwise they'll kill you.

All the world is made of faith, and trust, and pixie dust.

Believe nothing you hear, and only one half that you see.

The more I see, the less I know

The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself to be a fool.

The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing.

Those who know do not speak. Those who speak do not know.

You have to know what you stand for, not just what you stand against.

Wisdom comes from experience. Experience is often a result of lack of wisdom.

A clever person solves a problem. A wise person avoids it.

The greatest enemy of knowledge is not ignorance, it is the illusion of knowledge.

I am not young enough to know everything.

Everyone you will ever meet knows something you don't.

Education is the ability to listen to almost anything without losing your temper or your self-confidence.

Educating the mind without educating the heart is no education at all.

Never waste valuable time, or mental peace of mind, on the affairs of others—that is too high a price to pay.

I have no special talents. I am only passionately curious.

Never memorize something that you can look up.

If you can't explain it to a six year old, you don't understand it yourself.

I have never met a man so ignorant that I couldn't learn something from him.

Sell your cleverness and buy bewilderment.

Do not teach, make them think