---

layout: post
title: A summary of thoughts on work 

---

### In writing or didn't happen 
not in an email  ->  "never happened" when it's convenient.

verbally agreed -> send a confirmation email


> 20% of customers 80% of revenue

“Do things that don’t scale” has rightfully become a mantra for startups. You usually need to recruit initial users one at a time


### lack of momentum -> burnout

Founders and employees that are burn out nearly always work at startups without momentum. It’s hard to overstate how demoralizing it is.


### Can I work until 40 and then quit to enjoy??

You might start on US$130k, but at 40 you could be on $2m. You’re going to walk away from that?

It won't happen.

Money is an addiction that grabs your soul tight, and it doesn’t let go.

You never have enough.

<hr>


> “If all you have to sell is your time, you’ll never get ahead. Figure out a way to make money even when you’re sleeping if you want to be successful.”


> Design is a reflection of  business even if it is not intentional. If you don’t care about your design then your design is telling people that you don’t care about your business.– Marco Suarez


# How to pitch
1. enemy
2. why now 
3. promised land
4. obstacles/ how to get over
5. present evidence


> “Start with a sketch, but make it quick. There’s real work to be done.” – Stefan Hartwig



## How to spread trust

What the game is, defines what the players do.

more interactions >5 

more reward for cooperation 

less gain from cheating

low miscommunication, be a little forgiving

create win-win 

Build relationships. Find win-wins. Communicate clearly. 

to live and let live.

<hr>

Managers are often risk averse. This is because in most companies, creating a large gain for the company will lead to modest rewards...while creating an equal-sized loss will get you fired.

<hr>

Work has no inherent value: what matters is the results.

## negotiation

Understand the market.

Understand your options.

Understand their options.

Decide on your absolute walk-away outcome.

Decide on your ideal outcome.

Negotiate with absolute integrity.

<hr>

During YC, we tell founders they should be building product and talking to users, and not much else besides eating, sleeping, exercising, and spending time with their loved ones.

<hr>

Internal transparency around metrics and financials 