---

layout: post
title: Helpful heuristics for life 

---

Be kind to yourself. If you won’t, who will? 


## Simple words with big effects

no, thank you

I like you 

I agree 

I don't agree

I don't understand

I'm sorry, that was my fault

Can you help me? 


## Being contentful 

The greatest wealth is to live content with little"

Plato 

"He is rich who is content with the least, for contentment is the wealth of nature"
 
Socrates 

"The greatest wealth is poverty of desires"

Seneca 

"Wealth consists not in having great possessions but in having few wants"

Epictetus



## People

Good fences make good neighbors.

> “Everyone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself.”
>
> ― Leo Tolstoy

The meeting of two personalities is like the contact of two chemicals

No one likes plastic flowers -> be authentic

Actions over words -> Pay attention to what they do

has consequence, has influence

appreciate

You want to be respected? Respect yourself first.


## Things

Less is more


## Confidence

Authentic pride means understanding who you are and what you are worth. You don’t need to pretend to be more than you are. 

what pain do you want in your life? What are you willing to struggle for?

action -> experience -> confidence

“Be yourself; everyone else is already taken.”

fortune favors the bold 

If you want something, ask for it.

Care less what people think of you. Way, way less.

No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.

Whether you think you can or think you can't, you are right.

It is never too late to be what you might have been.



## Work 

let your love of something pull you, but do not hastily give all of yourself and find there is nothing left to give.

Don’t engage in the achievement rat race. 

Listen to praise from those you respect, but ignore it from those you don’t. 

hope is not a strategy



## Learning

do not be a full cup of tea, be open to learn

The half of knowledge is knowing where to find it

don't be sorry, improve yourself.

ask clarifying questions


## Trust 

Trust is the most delicate thing.

Accept the truth very fast no matter how bitter it is.


## Principia

Sophia,
Andreia,
Dikaiosyne,
Sôphrosynê,

wisdom,
courage,
honesty,
moderation

## Happiness

life is too short to cry for anything.

Drink because you are happy, but never because you are miserable.

> Folks are usually about as happy as they make their minds up to be.
>
> Abraham Lincoln

be free from anxiety of results, journey over destination 

want everything, lose everything 

a day spent worrying is a day wasted.


# made a mistake ?
Admit responsibility.

Fix your mistake 

Dont make it again


> Do nothing against thy will, nor contrary to the community, nor
without due examination, nor with reluctancy.



### Quit overthinking

Raise your awareness throughout the day. 

Start observing your thoughts.

Limit your thinking to dedicated times. 


## Time

If we take care of the moments, the years will take care of themselves


As we age, we should spend more time staying fit and less time making money.



> our capacity for fretting is endless -> don't worry, be happy 
