---
layout: post
title: Quotes 2
--- 

I dream my painting and I paint my dream.

<br><br>
Nobody ever figures out what life is all about, and it doesn't matter. Explore the world. Nearly everything is really interesting if you go into it deeply enough.

<br><br>
When a man is denied the right to live the life he believes in, he has no choice but to become an outlaw.

<br><br>
What are men to rocks and mountains?

<br><br>
Look again at that dot. That's here. That's home. That's us. On it everyone you love, everyone you know, everyone you ever heard of, every human being who ever was, lived out their lives. The aggregate of our joy and suffering, thousands of confident religions, ideologies, and economic doctrines, every hunter and forager, every hero and coward, every creator and destroyer of civilization, every king and peasant, every young couple in love, every mother and father, hopeful child, inventor and explorer, every teacher of morals, every corrupt politician, every "superstar," every "supreme leader," every saint and sinner in the history of our species lived there-on a mote of dust suspended in a sunbeam.<br/><br/>The Earth is a very small stage in a vast cosmic arena.  Think of the endless cruelties visited by the inhabitants of one corner of this pixel on the scarcely distinguishable inhabitants of some other corner, how frequent their misunderstandings, how eager they are to kill one another, how fervent their hatreds.  Think of the rivers of blood spilled by all those generals and emperors so that, in glory and triumph, they could become the momentary masters of a fraction of a dot.<br/><br/>Our posturings, our imagined self-importance, the delusion that we have some privileged position in the Universe, are challenged by this point of pale light. Our planet is a lonely speck in the great enveloping cosmic dark. In our obscurity, in all this vastness, there is no hint that help will come from elsewhere to save us from ourselves.<br/><br/>The Earth is the only world known so far to harbor life. There is nowhere else, at least in the near future, to which our species could migrate. Visit, yes. Settle, not yet.  Like it or not, for the moment the Earth is where we make our stand.<br/><br/>It has been said that astronomy is a humbling and character-building experience. There is perhaps no better demonstration of the folly of human conceits than this distant image of our tiny world. To me, it underscores our responsibility to deal more kindly with one another, and to preserve and cherish the pale blue dot, the only home we've ever known.

<br><br>
To burn with desire and keep quiet about it is the greatest punishment we can bring on ourselves.

<br><br>
I, myself, am made entirely of flaws, stitched together with good intentions.

<br><br>
Education is an admirable thing, but it is well to remember from time to time that nothing that is worth knowing can be taught.

<br><br>
Some birds are not meant to be caged, that's all.  Their feathers are too bright, their songs too sweet and wild.  So you let them go, or when you open the cage to feed them they somehow fly out past you.  And the part of you that knows it was wrong to imprison them in the first place rejoices, but still, the place where you live is that much more drab and empty for their departure.

<br><br>
What is hell? I maintain that it is the suffering of being unable to love.

<br><br>
So be sure when you step, Step with care and great tact. And remember that life's A Great Balancing Act. And will you succeed? Yes! You will, indeed! (98 and ¾ percent guaranteed) Kid, you'll move mountains.

<br><br>
I will not let anyone walk through my mind  with their dirty feet.

<br><br>
I never change, I simply become more myself.

<br><br>
Forever is composed of nows.

<br><br>
If you're losing your soul and you know it, then you've still got a soul left to lose

<br><br>
If she's amazing, she won't be easy. If she's easy, she won't be amazing. If she's worth it, you wont give up. If you give up, you're not worthy. ... Truth is, everybody is going to hurt you; you just gotta find the ones worth suffering for.

<br><br>
I cannot remember the books I've read any more than the meals I have eaten; even so, they have made me.

<br><br>
Confront the dark parts of yourself, and work to banish them with illumination and forgiveness. Your willingness to wrestle with your demons will cause your angels to sing.

<br><br>
We are all atheists about most of the gods that humanity has ever believed in. Some of us just go one god further.

<br><br>
You don't remember what happened. What you remember becomes what happened.

<br><br>
How vain it is to sit down to write when you have not stood up to live.

<br><br>
When someone leaves, it's because someone else is about to arrive.

<br><br>
Once you have tasted flight, you will forever walk the earth with your eyes turned skyward, for there you have been, and there you will always long to return.

<br><br>
there are worse things<br/>than being alone<br/>but it often takes<br/>decades to realize this<br/>and most often when you do<br/>it's too late<br/>and there's nothing worse<br/>than too late

<br><br>
This is your life and its ending one moment at a time.

<br><br>
I am not sure that I exist, actually. I am all the writers that I have read, all the people that I have met, all the women that I have loved; all the cities I have visited.

<br><br>
The one thing that doesn't abide by majority rule is a person's conscience.

<br><br>
A classic is a book that has never finished saying what it has to say.

<br><br>
There are no facts, only interpretations.

<br><br>
Judge a man by his questions rather than by his answers.

<br><br>
Goodbye," said the fox. "And now here is my secret, a very simple secret: It is only with the heart that one can see rightly; what is essential is invisible to the eye.

<br><br>
Learn what is to be taken seriously and laugh at the rest.

<br><br>
An intellectual says a simple thing in a hard way. An artist says a hard thing in a simple way.

<br><br>
Even the darkest night will end and the sun will rise.

<br><br>
People, I have discovered, are layers and layers of secrets. You believe you know them, that you understand them, but their motives are always hidden from you, buried in their own hearts. You will never know them, but sometimes you decide to trust them.

<br><br>
Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds.

<br><br>
Sanity and happiness are an impossible combination.

<br><br>
Don't say you don't have enough time. You have exactly the same number of hours per day that were given to Helen Keller, Pasteur, Michelangelo, Mother Teresa, Leonardo da Vinci, Thomas Jefferson, and Albert Einstein.

<br><br>
To see a World in a Grain of Sand <br/>And a Heaven in a Wild Flower, <br/>Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand <br/>And Eternity in an hour.

<br><br>
It's enough for me to be sure that you and I exist at this moment.

<br><br>
If you have two friends in your lifetime, you're lucky. If you have one good friend, you're more than lucky.

<br><br>
Live to the point of tears.

<br><br>
Remember that wherever your heart is, there you will find your treasure.

<br><br>
What Is Love? I have met in the streets a very poor young man who was in love. His hat was old, his coat worn, the water passed through his shoes and the stars through his soul

<br><br>
When you stop expecting people to be perfect, you can like them for who they are.

<br><br>
It is a curious thought, but it is only when you see people looking ridiculous that you realize just how much you love them.  

<br><br>
People who claim that they're evil are usually no worse than the rest of us... It's people who claim that they're good, or any way  better than the rest of us, that you have to be wary of.

<br><br>
You're off to Great Places!<br/>Today is your day!<br/>Your mountain is waiting,<br/>So... get on your way!

<br><br>
The most painful thing is losing yourself in the process of loving someone too much, and forgetting that you are special too.

<br><br>
Poets have been mysteriously silent on the subject of cheese.

<br><br>
Among other things, you'll find that you're not the first person who was ever confused and frightened and even sickened by human behavior. You're by no means alone on that score, you'll be excited and stimulated to know. Many, many men have been just as troubled morally and spiritually as you are right now. Happily, some of them kept records of their troubles. You'll learn from them—if you want to. Just as someday, if you have something to offer, someone will learn something from you. It's a beautiful reciprocal arrangement. And it isn't education. It's history. It's poetry.

<br><br>
There is nothing noble in being superior to your fellow man; true nobility is being superior to your former self.

<br><br>
Many people lose the small joys in the hope for the big happiness.

<br><br>
I fell in love with her courage, her sincerity, and her flaming self respect. And it's these things I'd believe in, even if the whole world indulged in wild suspicions that she wasn't all she should be. I love her and it is the beginning of everything.

<br><br>
After nourishment, shelter and companionship, stories are the thing we need most in the world.

<br><br>
You never fail until you stop trying.

<br><br>
The true soldier fights not because he hates what is in front of him, but because he loves what is behind him.

<br><br>
What would men be without women? Scarce, sir...mighty scarce.

<br><br>
If you obey all of the rules, you miss all of the fun.

<br><br>
Life is to be enjoyed, not endured

<br><br>
If you want to forget something or someone, never hate it, or never hate him/her. Everything and everyone that you hate is engraved upon your heart; if you want to let go of something, if you want to forget, you cannot hate.

<br><br>
Success is liking yourself, liking what you do, and liking how you do it.

<br><br>
I loved her against reason, against promise, against peace, against hope, against happiness, against all discouragement that could be.

<br><br>
Do I not destroy my enemies when I make them my friends?

<br><br>
but for my own part, if a book is well written, I always find it too short.

<br><br>
Yesterday I was clever, so I wanted to change the world.  Today I am wise, so I am changing myself.

<br><br>
Knowing others is intelligence;<br/>knowing yourself is true wisdom.<br/>Mastering others is strength; <br/>mastering yourself is true power.

<br><br>
Why didn't I learn to treat everything like it was the last time. My greatest regret was how much I believed in the future.

<br><br>
When the power of love overcomes the love of power, the world will know peace.

<br><br>
Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves, vanity to what we would have others think of us.

<br><br>
Three things in human life are important: the first is to be kind; the second is to be kind; and the third is to be kind.

<br><br>
My life amounts to no more than one drop in a limitless ocean. Yet what is any ocean, but a multitude of drops?

<br><br>
The paradox of our time in history is that we have taller buildings but shorter tempers, wider Freeways, but narrower viewpoints.  We spend more, but have less, we buy more, but enjoy less. We have bigger houses and smaller families, more conveniences, but less time.  We have more degrees but less sense, more knowledge, but less judgment, more experts, yet more problems, more medicine, but less wellness.<br/><br/>We drink too much, smoke too much, spend too recklessly, laugh too little, drive too fast, get too angry, stay up too late, get up too tired, read too little, watch TV too much, and pray too seldom.  We have multiplied our possessions, but reduced our values.  We talk too much, love too seldom, and hate too often.<br/><br/>We've learned how to make a living, but not a life. We've added years to life not life to years.  We've been all the way to the moon and back, but have trouble crossing the street to meet a new neighbor.  We conquered outer space but not inner space.  We've done larger things, but not better things.<br/><br/>We've cleaned up the air, but polluted the soul. We've conquered the atom, but not our prejudice.  We write more, but learn less.  We plan more, but accomplish less.  We've learned to rush, but not to wait.  We build more computers to hold more information, to produce more copies than ever, but we communicate less and less.<br/><br/>These are the times of fast foods and slow digestion, big men and small character, steep profits and shallow relationships.<br/><br/>These are the days of two incomes but more divorce, fancier houses, but broken homes.  These are days of quick trips, disposable diapers, throwaway morality, one night stands, overweight bodies, and pills that do everything from cheer, to quiet, to kill.  It is a time when there is much in the showroom window and nothing in the stockroom.  A time when technology can bring this letter to you, and a time when you can choose either to share this insight, or to just hit delete...<br/><br/>Remember, to spend some time with your loved ones, because they are not going to be around forever.  Remember, say a kind word to someone who looks up to you in awe, because that little person soon will grow up and leave your side.<br/><br/>Remember, to give a warm hug to the one next to you, because that is the only treasure you can give with your heart and it doesn't cost a cent.<br/><br/>Remember, to say, "I love you" to your partner and your loved ones, but most of all mean it.  A kiss and an embrace will mend hurt when it comes from deep inside of you.<br/><br/>Remember to hold hands and cherish the moment for someday that person might not be there again.  Give time to love, give time to speak! And give time to share the precious thoughts in your mind.

<br><br>
The scariest moment is always just before you start.

<br><br>
The more I see, the less I know for sure.

<br><br>
The Chinese use two brush strokes to write the word 'crisis.' One brush stroke stands for danger; the other for opportunity. In a crisis, be aware of the danger--but recognize the opportunity.

<br><br>
The most wasted of all days is one without laughter.

<br><br>
We all have our time machines, don't we. Those that take us back are memories...And those that carry us forward, are dreams.

<br><br>
To go wrong in one's own way is better than to go right in someone else's.

<br><br>
We know what we are, but not what we may be.

<br><br>
There comes a time when one must take a position that is neither safe, nor politic, nor popular, but he must take it because conscience tells him it is right.

<br><br>
It's not the load that breaks you down, it's the way you carry it.

<br><br>
Dare to Be<br/><br/>When a new day begins, dare to smile gratefully.<br/><br/>When there is darkness, dare to be the first to shine a light.<br/><br/>When there is injustice, dare to be the first to condemn it.<br/><br/>When something seems difficult, dare to do it anyway.<br/><br/>When life seems to beat you down, dare to fight back.<br/><br/>When there seems to be no hope, dare to find some.<br/><br/>When you’re feeling tired, dare to keep going.<br/><br/>When times are tough, dare to be tougher.<br/><br/>When love hurts you, dare to love again.<br/><br/>When someone is hurting, dare to help them heal.<br/><br/>When another is lost, dare to help them find the way.<br/><br/>When a friend falls, dare to be the first to extend a hand.<br/><br/>When you cross paths with another, dare to make them smile.<br/><br/>When you feel great, dare to help someone else feel great too.<br/><br/>When the day has ended, dare to feel as you’ve done your best.<br/><br/>Dare to be the best you can –<br/><br/>At all times, Dare to be!

<br><br>
there is a loneliness in this world so great<br/>that you can see it in the slow movement of<br/>the hands of a clock.<br/><br/>people so tired<br/>mutilated<br/>either by love or no love.<br/><br/>people just are not good to each other<br/>one on one.<br/><br/>the rich are not good to the rich<br/>the poor are not good to the poor.<br/><br/>we are afraid.<br/><br/>our educational system tells us<br/>that we can all be<br/>big-ass winners.<br/><br/>it hasn't told us<br/>about the gutters<br/>or the suicides.<br/><br/>or the terror of one person<br/>aching in one place<br/>alone<br/><br/>untouched<br/>unspoken to<br/><br/>watering a plant.

<br><br>
Everybody is identical in their secret unspoken belief that way deep down they are different from everyone else.

<br><br>
I read a book one day and my whole life was changed.

<br><br>
Everything tells me that I am about to make a wrong decision, but making mistakes is just part of life. What does the world want of me? Does it want me to take no risks, to go back to where I came from because I didn't have the courage to say "yes" to life?

<br><br>
The most important kind of freedom is to be what you really are. You trade in your reality for a role. You trade in your sense for an act. You give up your ability to feel, and in exchange, put on a mask. There can't be any large-scale revolution until there's a personal revolution, on an individual level. It's got to happen inside first.

<br><br>
Everyone has talent. What's rare is the courage to follow it to the dark places where it leads.

<br><br>
A painter should begin every canvas with a wash of black, because all things in nature are dark except where exposed by the light.

<br><br>
The Guide says there is an art to flying", said Ford, "or rather a knack. The knack lies in learning how to throw yourself at the ground and miss.

<br><br>
The most beautiful people we have known are those who have known defeat, known suffering, known struggle, known loss, and have found their way out of the depths. These persons have an appreciation, a sensitivity, and an understanding of life that fills them with compassion, gentleness, and a deep loving concern. Beautiful people do not just happen.

<br><br>
It is good to love many things, for therein lies the true strength, and whosoever loves much performs much, and can accomplish much, and what is done in love is well done.

<br><br>
I have heard there are troubles of more than one kind. Some come from ahead and some come from behind. But I've bought a big bat. I'm all ready you see. Now my troubles are going to have troubles with me!

<br><br>
Sometimes people don't want to hear the truth because they don't want their illusions destroyed.

<br><br>
Do you think I am an automaton? — a machine without feelings? and can bear to have my morsel of bread snatched from my lips, and my drop of living water dashed from my cup? Do you think, because I am poor, obscure, plain, and little, I am soulless and heartless? You think wrong! — I have as much soul as you — and full as much heart! And if God had gifted me with some beauty and much wealth, I should have made it as hard for you to leave me, as it is now for me to leave you. I am not talking to you now through the medium of custom, conventionalities, nor even of mortal flesh: it is my spirit that addresses your spirit; just as if both had passed through the grave, and we stood at God's feet, equal — as we are!

<br><br>
Reading one book is like eating one potato chip.

<br><br>
Pain is temporary. Quitting lasts forever.

<br><br>
You know, one of the tragedies of real life is that there is no background music.

<br><br>
There may be times when we are powerless to prevent injustice, but there must never be a time when we fail to protest.

<br><br>
Laters, baby.

<br><br>
It's like everyone tells a story about themselves inside their own head. Always. All the time. That story makes you what you are. We build ourselves out of that story.

<br><br>
All grown-ups were once children... but only few of them remember it.

<br><br>
Worry does not empty tomorrow of its sorrow, it empties today of its strength.

<br><br>
Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?"<br/>"That depends a good deal on where you want to get to."<br/>"I don't much care where –"<br/>"Then it doesn't matter which way you go.

<br><br>
Clouds come floating into my life, no longer to carry rain or usher storm, but to add color to my sunset sky.

<br><br>
The truth is, unless you let go, unless you forgive yourself, unless you forgive the situation, unless you realize that the situation is over, you cannot move forward.

<br><br>
The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.

<br><br>
You may not control all the events that happen to you, but you can decide not to be reduced by them.

<br><br>
Life should not be a journey to the grave with the intention of arriving safely in a pretty and well preserved body, but rather to skid in broadside in a cloud of smoke, thoroughly used up, totally worn out, and loudly proclaiming "Wow! What a Ride!

<br><br>
Cinderella? Snow White? What's that? An illness?

<br><br>
Art is the lie that enables us to realize the truth.

<br><br>
If you go home with somebody, and they don't have books, don't fuck 'em!

<br><br>
I will not say: do not weep; for not all tears are an evil.

<br><br>
The journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.

<br><br>
Some cause happiness wherever they go; others whenever they go.

<br><br>
It is more fun to talk with someone who doesn't use long, difficult words but rather short, easy words like "What about lunch?

<br><br>
That's the problem with drinking, I thought, as I poured myself a drink. If something bad happens you drink in an attempt to forget; if something good happens you drink in order to celebrate; and if nothing happens you drink to make something happen.

<br><br>
Death must be so beautiful. To lie in the soft brown earth, with the grasses waving above one's head, and listen to silence. To have no yesterday, and no tomorrow. To forget time, to forgive life, to be at peace.

<br><br>
Tell the truth, or someone will tell it for you.

<br><br>
Simplicity, patience, compassion.<br/>These three are your greatest treasures.<br/>Simple in actions and thoughts, you return to the source of being.<br/>Patient with both friends and enemies,<br/>you accord with the way things are.<br/>Compassionate toward yourself,<br/>you reconcile all beings in the world.

<br><br>
Think left and think right and think low and think high. Oh, the thinks you can think up if only you try!

<br><br>
It is amazing how complete is the delusion that beauty is goodness.

<br><br>
What you seek is seeking you.

<br><br>
There is nothing in the world so irresistibly contagious as laughter and good humor.

<br><br>
God has no religion.

<br><br>
Let no man pull you so low as to hate him.

<br><br>
Everyone seems to have a clear idea of how other people should lead their lives, but none about his or her own.

<br><br>
Begin at the beginning," the King said, very gravely, "and go on till you come to the end: then stop.

<br><br>
Life has no meaning. Each of us has meaning and we bring it to life. It is a waste to be asking the question when you are the answer.

<br><br>
If you look for perfection, you'll never be content.

<br><br>
The world as we have created it is a process of our thinking. It cannot be changed without changing our thinking.

<br><br>
Never say goodbye because goodbye means going away and going away means forgetting.

<br><br>
I do not fear death. I had been dead for billions and billions of years before I was born, and had not suffered the slightest inconvenience from it.

<br><br>
You can spend minutes, hours, days, weeks, or even months over-analyzing a situation; trying to put the pieces together, justifying what could've, would've happened... or you can just leave the pieces on the floor and move the fuck on.

<br><br>
The truth does not change according to our ability to stomach it.

<br><br>
People generally see what they look for, and hear what they listen for.

<br><br>
Be careful of love. It'll twist your brain around and leave you thinking up is down and right is wrong.

<br><br>
A brave man acknowledges the strength of others.

<br><br>
War is what happens when language fails.

<br><br>
How many slams in an old screen door? Depends how loud you shut it. How many slices in a bread? Depends how thin you cut it. How much good inside a day? Depends how good you live 'em. How much love inside a friend? Depends how much you give 'em.

<br><br>
Sometimes our light goes out, but is blown again into instant flame by an encounter with another human being.

<br><br>
The problem with the world is that the intelligent people are full of doubts, while the stupid ones are full of confidence.

<br><br>
There are three things all wise men fear: the sea in storm, a night with no moon, and the anger of a gentle man.

<br><br>
Don't judge each day by the harvest you reap but by the seeds that you plant.

<br><br>
Who said nights were for sleep?

<br><br>
It's a dangerous business, Frodo, going out your door. You step onto the road, and if you don't keep your feet, there's no knowing where you might be swept off to.

<br><br>
Why do you go away?  So that you can come back.  So that you can see the place you came from with new eyes and extra colors.  And the people there see you differently, too.  Coming back to where you started is not the same as never leaving.

<br><br>
Don't tell me the moon is shining; show me the glint of light on broken glass.

<br><br>
None but ourselves can free our minds.

<br><br>
You probably wouldn’t worry about what people think of you if you could know how seldom they do.

<br><br>
Freedom is not worth having if it does not include the freedom to make mistakes.

<br><br>
Nobody can hurt me without my permission.

<br><br>
By three methods we may learn wisdom: First, by reflection, which is noblest; Second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third by experience, which is the bitterest.

<br><br>
The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched. They must be felt with the heart

<br><br>
What happens when people open their hearts?"<br/>"They get better.

<br><br>
Live, travel, adventure, bless, and don't be sorry.

<br><br>
I don't trust people who don't love themselves and tell me, 'I love you.' ... There is an African saying which is: Be careful when a naked person offers you a shirt.

<br><br>
I don't want to die without any scars.

<br><br>
If you have a garden and a library, you have everything you need.

<br><br>
Love is a fire. But whether it is going to warm your hearth or burn down your house, you can never tell.

<br><br>
No book is really worth reading at the age of ten which is not equally – and often far more – worth reading at the age of fifty and beyond.

<br><br>
Resist much, obey little.

<br><br>
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it).

<br><br>
Never be afraid to raise your voice for honesty and truth and compassion against injustice and lying and greed. If people all over the world...would do this, it would change the earth.

<br><br>
And, in the end<br/>The love you take<br/>is equal to the love you make.

<br><br>
The simple things are also the most extraordinary things, and only the wise can see them.

<br><br>
Painting is poetry that is seen rather than felt, and poetry is painting that is felt rather than seen.

<br><br>
You have to die a few times before you can really<br/>live.

<br><br>
Every child is an artist. The problem is how to remain an artist once he grows up.

<br><br>
To be nobody but <br/>yourself in a world <br/>which is doing its best day and night to make you like <br/>everybody else means to fight the hardest battle <br/>which any human being can fight and never stop fighting.

<br><br>
When a man gives his opinion, he's a man. When a woman gives her opinion, she's a bitch.

<br><br>
You have your way. I have my way. As for the right way, the correct way, and the only way, it does not exist.

<br><br>
All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others.

<br><br>
Love doesn't just sit there, like a stone, it has to be made, like bread; remade all the time, made new.

<br><br>
It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat.

<br><br>
Books are mirrors: you only see in them what you already have inside you.

<br><br>
I like your Christ, I do not like your Christians. Your Christians are so unlike your Christ.

<br><br>
Pain and suffering are always inevitable for a large intelligence and a deep heart. The really great men must, I think, have great sadness on earth.

<br><br>
I love people who make me laugh. I honestly think it's the thing I like most, to laugh. It cures a multitude of ills. It's probably the most important thing in a person.

<br><br>
Nothing of me is original. I am the combined effort of everyone I've ever known.

<br><br>
If you are going through hell, keep going.

<br><br>
Stop acting so small. You are the universe in ecstatic motion.

<br><br>
Some people feel the rain. Others just get wet.

<br><br>
War is peace. <br/>Freedom is slavery. <br/>Ignorance is strength.

<br><br>
But I don’t want to go among mad people," Alice remarked.<br/>"Oh, you can’t help that," said the Cat: "we’re all mad here. I’m mad. You’re mad."<br/>"How do you know I’m mad?" said Alice.<br/>"You must be," said the Cat, "or you wouldn’t have come here.

<br><br>
I lie to myself all the time. But I never believe me.

<br><br>
Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.

<br><br>
My ambition is handicapped by laziness

<br><br>
Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster. And if you gaze long enough into an abyss, the abyss will gaze back into you.

<br><br>
The important thing is not to stop questioning.  Curiosity has its own reason for existence.  One cannot help but be in awe when he contemplates the mysteries of eternity, of life, of the marvelous structure of reality.  It is enough if one tries merely to comprehend a little of this mystery each day.<br/><br/>—"Old Man's Advice to Youth: 'Never Lose a Holy Curiosity.'" <i>LIFE Magazine</i> (2 May 1955) p. 64

<br><br>
People are afraid of themselves, of their own reality; their feelings most of all. People talk about how great love is, but that’s bullshit. Love hurts. Feelings are disturbing. People are taught that pain is evil and dangerous. How can they deal with love if they’re afraid to feel? Pain is meant to wake us up. People try to hide their pain. But they’re wrong. Pain is something to carry, like a radio. You feel your strength in the experience of pain. It’s all in how you carry it. That’s what matters. Pain is a feeling. Your feelings are a part of you. Your own reality. If you feel ashamed of them, and hide them, you’re letting society destroy your reality. You should stand up for your right to feel your pain.

<br><br>
But who prays for Satan? Who, in eighteen centuries, has had the common humanity to pray for the one sinner that needed it most?

<br><br>
No tears in the writer, no tears in the reader.  No surprise in the writer, no surprise in the reader.

<br><br>
When you have eliminated all which is impossible, then whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.

<br><br>
Man is least himself when he talks in his own person. Give him a mask, and he will tell you the truth.

<br><br>
Men occasionally stumble over the truth, but most of them pick themselves up and hurry off as if nothing ever happened.

<br><br>
I wonder how many people I've looked at all my life and never seen.

<br><br>
There are worse crimes than burning books.  One of them is not reading them.

<br><br>
We're all going to die, all of us, what a circus! That alone should make us love each other but it doesn't. We are terrorized and flattened by trivialities, we are eaten up by nothing.

<br><br>
Either write something worth reading or do something worth writing.

<br><br>
If you can't fly then run, if you can't run then walk, if you can't walk then crawl, but whatever you do you have to keep moving forward.

<br><br>
There are few people whom I really love, and still fewer of whom I think well. The more I see of the world, the more am I dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of merit or sense.

<br><br>
Hell is empty and all the devils are here.

<br><br>
You gain strength, courage and confidence by every experience in which you really stop to look fear in the face. You are able to say to yourself, 'I have lived through this horror. I can take the next thing that comes along.' You must do the thing you think you cannot do.

<br><br>
I can be changed by what happens to me.  But I refuse to be reduced by it.<br/><br/>(Popular misquote of "You may not control all the events that happen to you, but you can decide not to be reduced by them.")

<br><br>
My experience of life is that it is not divided up into genres; it’s a horrifying, romantic, tragic, comical, science-fiction cowboy detective novel. You know, with a bit of pornography if you're lucky.

<br><br>
Here's all you have to know about men and women: women are crazy, men are stupid. And the main reason women are crazy is that men are stupid.

<br><br>
The best index to a person's character is how he treats people who can't do him any good, and how he treats people who can't fight back.

<br><br>
The most important thing is to enjoy your life—to be happy—it's all that matters.

<br><br>
Never be bullied into silence. Never allow yourself to be made a victim. Accept no one’s definition of your life; define yourself.

<br><br>
It is hard enough to remember my opinions, without also remembering my reasons for them!

<br><br>
Experience is merely the name men gave to their mistakes.

<br><br>
The loneliest moment in someone’s life is when they are watching their whole world fall apart, and all they can do is stare blankly.

<br><br>
There is a theory which states that if ever anyone discovers exactly what the Universe is for and why it is here, it will instantly disappear and be replaced by something even more bizarre and inexplicable. <br/><br/>There is another theory which states that this has already happened.

<br><br>
You have enemies? Good. That means you've stood up for something, sometime in your life.

<br><br>
It is so hard to leave—until you leave. And then it is the easiest goddamned thing in the world.

<br><br>
Talent hits a target no one else can hit. Genius hits a target no one else can see.

<br><br>
Monsters are real, and ghosts are real too. They live inside us, and sometimes, they win.

<br><br>
Libraries were full of ideas—perhaps the most dangerous and powerful of all weapons.

<br><br>
Whether you think you can, or you think you can't--you're right.

<br><br>
Life can only be understood backwards; but it must be lived forwards.

<br><br>
Think of all the beauty still left around you and be happy.

<br><br>
The mind is its own place, and in itself can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven..

<br><br>
I am not young enough to know everything.

<br><br>
If a cluttered desk is a sign of a cluttered mind, of what, then, is an empty desk a sign?

<br><br>
Always do what you are afraid to do.

<br><br>
One day I will find the right words, and they will be simple.

<br><br>
Make it a rule never to give a child a book you would not read yourself.

<br><br>
Faithless is he that says farewell when the road darkens.

<br><br>
One, remember to look up at the stars and not down at your feet. Two, never give up work. Work gives you meaning and purpose and life is empty without it.  Three, if you are lucky enough to find love, remember it is there and don't throw it away.

<br><br>
Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that matter.

<br><br>
Of all sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these, 'It might have been.

<br><br>
A life spent making mistakes is not only more honorable, but more useful than a life spent doing nothing.

<br><br>
I wanted you to see what real courage is, instead of getting the idea that courage is a man with a gun in his hand. It's when you know you're licked before you begin, but you begin anyway and see it through no matter what.<br/>- Atticus Finch

<br><br>
When his life was ruined, his family killed, his farm destroyed, Job knelt down on the ground and yelled up to the heavens, "Why god? Why me?" and the thundering voice of God answered, There's just something about you that pisses me off.

<br><br>
Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional.

<br><br>
In the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.

<br><br>
When I have a little money, I buy books; and if I have any left, I buy food and clothes.

<br><br>
Your task is not to seek for love, but merely to seek and find all the barriers within yourself that you have built against it.

<br><br>
I like work: it fascinates me. I can sit and look at it for hours.

<br><br>
Sometimes you climb out of bed in the morning and you think, I'm not going to make it, but you laugh inside — remembering all the times you've felt that way.

<br><br>
Sarcasm is the last refuge of the imaginatively bankrupt.

<br><br>
The world is a book and those who do not travel read only one page.

<br><br>
The secret of life, though, is to fall seven times and to get up eight times.

<br><br>
Who controls the past controls the future. Who controls the present controls the past.

<br><br>
Isn't it nice to think that tomorrow is a new day with no mistakes in it yet?

<br><br>
Eleanor was right. She never looked nice. She looked like art, and art wasn't supposed to look nice; it was supposed to make you feel something.

<br><br>
Above all, don't lie to yourself. The man who lies to himself and listens to his own lie comes to a point that he cannot distinguish the truth within him, or around him, and so loses all respect for himself and for others. And having no respect he ceases to love.

<br><br>
It's really a wonder that I haven't dropped all my ideals, because they seem so absurd and impossible to carry out. Yet I keep them, because in spite of everything, I still believe that people are really good at heart.

<br><br>
You educate a man; you educate a man. You educate a woman; you educate a generation.

<br><br>
When someone shows you who they are believe them; the first time.

<br><br>
All the world is made of faith, and trust, and pixie dust.

<br><br>
To love. To be loved. To never forget your own insignificance. To never get used to the unspeakable violence and the vulgar disparity of life around you. To seek joy in the saddest places. To pursue beauty to its lair. To never simplify what is complicated or complicate what is simple. To respect strength, never power. Above all, to watch. To try and understand. To never look away. And never, never to forget.

<br><br>
How lucky I am to have known somebody and something that saying goodbye to is so damned awful.

<br><br>
You know the world is going crazy when the best rapper is a white guy, the best golfer is a black guy, the tallest guy in the NBA is Chinese, the Swiss hold the America's Cup, France is accusing the U.S. of arrogance, Germany doesn't want to go to war, and the three most powerful men in America are named "Bush", "Dick", and "Colin." Need I say more?

<br><br>
Chance is perhaps the pseudonym of God when he does not want to sign.

<br><br>
There are two basic motivating forces: fear and love. When we are afraid, we pull back from life. When we are in love, we open to all that life has to offer with passion, excitement, and acceptance. We need to learn to love ourselves first, in all our glory and our imperfections. If we cannot love ourselves, we cannot fully open to our ability to love others or our potential to create. Evolution and all hopes for a better world rest in the fearlessness and open-hearted vision of people who embrace life.

<br><br>
Don't touch any of my weapons without my permission."<br/>"Well, there goes my plan for selling them all on eBay," Clary muttered.<br/>"Selling them on what?"<br/>Clary smiled blandly at him. "A mythical place of great magical power.

<br><br>
In a good bookroom you feel in some mysterious way that you are absorbing the wisdom contained in all the books through your skin, without even opening them.

<br><br>
Do not read, as children do, to amuse yourself, or like the ambitious, for the purpose of instruction. No, read in order to live.

<br><br>
Most people are other people. Their thoughts are someone else's opinions, their lives a mimicry, their passions a quotation.

<br><br>
Don't think or judge, just listen.

<br><br>
What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.

<br><br>
The soul is healed by being with children.

<br><br>
I don't know half of you half as well as I should like; and I like less than half of you half as well as you deserve.

<br><br>
Nothing is impossible, the word itself says 'I'm possible'!

<br><br>
If you were half as funny as you think you are, you'd be twice as funny as you really are.

<br><br>
The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.

<br><br>
Keep away from people who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people always do that, but the really great make you feel that you, too, can become great.

<br><br>
How wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single moment before starting to improve the world.

<br><br>
It's far better to be unhappy alone than unhappy with someone — so far.

<br><br>
And above all, watch with glittering eyes the whole world around you because the greatest secrets are always hidden in the most unlikely places. Those who don't believe in magic will never find it.

<br><br>
If you don't know where you're going, any road'll take you there

<br><br>
When we honestly ask ourselves which person in our lives mean the most to us, we often find that it is those who, instead of giving advice, solutions, or cures, have chosen rather to share our pain and touch our wounds with a warm and tender hand. The friend who can be silent with us in a moment of despair or confusion, who can stay with us in an hour of grief and bereavement, who can tolerate not knowing, not curing, not healing and face with us the reality of our powerlessness, that is a friend who cares.

<br><br>
An eye for an eye will only make the whole world blind.

<br><br>
If you're gonna be two-faced at least make one of them pretty.

<br><br>
Perhaps one did not want to be loved so much as to be understood.

<br><br>
Until I feared I would lose it, I never loved to read. One does not love breathing.

<br><br>
Music expresses that which cannot be put into words and that which cannot remain silent

<br><br>
Tis better to have loved and lost<br/>Than never to have loved at all.

<br><br>
I can never read all the books I want; I can never be all the people I want and live all the lives I want. I can never train myself in all the skills I want. And why do I want? I want to live and feel all the shades, tones and variations of mental and physical experience possible in my life. And I am horribly limited.

<br><br>
It's so hard to forget pain, but it's even harder to remember sweetness.  We have no scar to show for happiness. We learn so little from peace.

<br><br>
What you're supposed to do when you don't like a thing is change it. If you can't change it, change the way you think about it. Don't complain.

<br><br>
Knowing yourself is the beginning of all wisdom.

<br><br>
He’s not perfect. You aren’t either, and the two of you will never be perfect. But if he can make you laugh at least once, causes you to think twice, and if he admits to being human and making mistakes, hold onto him and give him the most you can. He isn’t going to quote poetry, he’s not thinking about you every moment, but he will give you a part of him that he knows you could break. Don’t hurt him, don’t change him, and don’t expect for more than he can give. Don’t analyze. Smile when he makes you happy, yell when he makes you mad, and miss him when he’s not there. Love hard when there is love to be had. Because perfect guys don’t exist, but there’s always one guy that is perfect for you.

<br><br>
Just because you have the emotional range of a teaspoon doesn't mean we all have.

<br><br>
Numbing the pain for a while will make it worse when you finally feel it.

<br><br>
To die will be an awfully big adventure.

<br><br>
We believe in ordinary acts of bravery, in the courage that drives one person to stand up for another.

<br><br>
You have to write the book that wants to be written. And if the book will be too difficult for grown-ups, then you write it for children.

<br><br>
The books that the world calls immoral are books that show the world its own shame.

<br><br>
Piglet sidled up to Pooh from behind. <br/>"Pooh!" he whispered.<br/>"Yes, Piglet?"<br/>"Nothing," said Piglet, taking Pooh's paw. "I just wanted to be sure of you.

<br><br>
Do not pity the dead, Harry. Pity the living, and, above all those who live without love.

<br><br>
When one door of happiness closes, another opens; but often we look so long at the closed door that we do not see the one which has been opened for us.

<br><br>
It matters not what someone is born, but what they grow to be.

<br><br>
The difference between genius and stupidity is: genius has its limits.

<br><br>
Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance, you must keep moving.

<br><br>
You may not be her first, her last, or her only. She loved before she may love again. But if she loves you now, what else matters? She's not perfect—you aren't either, and the two of you may never be perfect together but if she can make you laugh, cause you to think twice, and admit to being human and making mistakes, hold onto her and give her the most you can. She may not be thinking about you every second of the day, but she will give you a part of her that she knows you can break—her heart. So don't hurt her, don't change her, don't analyze and don't expect more than she can give. Smile when she makes you happy, let her know when she makes you mad, and miss her when she's not there.

<br><br>
Only once in your life, I truly believe, you find someone who can completely turn your world around. You tell them things that you’ve never shared with another soul and they absorb everything you say and actually want to hear more. You share hopes for the future, dreams that will never come true, goals that were never achieved and the many disappointments life has thrown at you. When something wonderful happens, you can’t wait to tell them about it, knowing they will share in your excitement. They are not embarrassed to cry with you when you are hurting or laugh with you when you make a fool of yourself. Never do they hurt your feelings or make you feel like you are not good enough, but rather they build you up and show you the things about yourself that make you special and even beautiful. There is never any pressure, jealousy or competition but only a quiet calmness when they are around. You can be yourself and not worry about what they will think of you because they love you for who you are. The things that seem insignificant to most people such as a note, song or walk become invaluable treasures kept safe in your heart to cherish forever. Memories of your childhood come back and are so clear and vivid it’s like being young again. Colours seem brighter and more brilliant. Laughter seems part of daily life where before it was infrequent or didn’t exist at all. A phone call or two during the day helps to get you through a long day’s work and always brings a smile to your face. In their presence, there’s no need for continuous conversation, but you find you’re quite content in just having them nearby. Things that never interested you before become fascinating because you know they are important to this person who is so special to you. You think of this person on every occasion and in everything you do. Simple things bring them to mind like a pale blue sky, gentle wind or even a storm cloud on the horizon. You open your heart knowing that there’s a chance it may be broken one day and in opening your heart, you experience a love and joy that you never dreamed possible. You find that being vulnerable is the only way to allow your heart to feel true pleasure that’s so real it scares you. You find strength in knowing you have a true friend and possibly a soul mate who will remain loyal to the end. Life seems completely different, exciting and worthwhile. Your only hope and security is in knowing that they are a part of your life.

<br><br>
Do one thing every day that scares you.

<br><br>
Love never dies a natural death. It dies because we don't know how to replenish its source. It dies of blindness and errors and betrayals. It dies of illness and wounds; it dies of weariness, of witherings, of tarnishings.

<br><br>
The trouble with having an open mind, of course, is that people will insist on coming along and trying to put things in it.

<br><br>
It is what you read when you don't have to that determines what you will be when you can't help it.

<br><br>
The real lover is the man who can thrill you by kissing your forehead or smiling into your eyes or just staring into space.

<br><br>
It is impossible to live without failing at something, unless you live so cautiously that you might as well not have lived at all - in which case, you fail by default.

<br><br>
Of course it is happening inside your head, Harry, but why on earth should that mean that it is not real?

<br><br>
Today you are You, that is truer than true. There is no one alive who is Youer than You.

<br><br>
To the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure.

<br><br>
If you want your children to be intelligent, read them fairy tales. If you want them to be more intelligent, read them more fairy tales.

<br><br>
If one cannot enjoy reading a book over and over again, there is no use in reading it at all.

<br><br>
Logic will get you from A to Z; imagination will get you everywhere.

<br><br>
The more that you read, the more things you will know. The more that you learn, the more places you'll go.

<br><br>
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind,<br/>And therefore is winged Cupid painted blind.

<br><br>
Do what you can, with what you have, where you are.

<br><br>
Love all, trust a few, do wrong to none.

<br><br>
You have brains in your head. You have feet in your shoes. You can steer yourself any direction you choose. You're on your own. And you know what you know. And YOU are the one who'll decide where to go...

<br><br>
That which does not kill us makes us stronger.

<br><br>
A reader lives a thousand lives before he dies, said Jojen. The man who never reads lives only one.

<br><br>
It is never too late to be what you might have been.

<br><br>
It takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our friends.

<br><br>
If you judge people, you have no time to love them.

<br><br>
My thoughts are stars I cannot fathom into constellations.

<br><br>
I'm not upset that you lied to me, I'm upset that from now on I can't believe you.

<br><br>
I have always imagined that Paradise will be a kind of library.

<br><br>
We don't see things as they are, we see them as we are.

<br><br>
If you only read the books that everyone else is reading, you can only think what everyone else is thinking.

<br><br>
Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover.

<br><br>
You know you're in love when you can't fall asleep because reality is finally better than your dreams.

<br><br>
Design is really an act of communication, which means having a deep understanding of the person with whom the designer is communicating.

<br><br>
Principles of design:<br/>1. Use both knowledge in the world and knowledge in the head.<br/>2. Simplify the structure of tasks.<br/>3. Make things visible: bridge gulfs between Execution and Evaluation.<br/>4. Get the mappings right.<br/>5. Exploit the power of constraints.<br/>6. Design for error.<br/>7. When all else fails, standardize.

<br><br>
Rule of thumb: if you think something is clever and sophisticated beware-it is probably self-indulgence.

<br><br>
Learning should take place when it is needed, when the learner is interested, not according to some arbitrary, fixed schedule

<br><br>
Good design is actually a lot harder to notice than poor design, in part because good designs fit our needs so well that the design is invisible,

<br><br>
A brilliant solution to the wrong problem can be worse than no solution at all: solve the correct problem.

<br><br>
Fail often, fail fast,

<br><br>
Any time you see signs or labels added to a device, it is an indication of bad design: a simple lock should not require instructions.

<br><br>
What makes something simple or complex? It's not the number of dials or controls or how many features it has: It is whether the person using the device has a good conceptual model of how it operates.

<br><br>
The vicious cycle starts: if you fail at something, you think it is your fault. Therefore you think you can’t do that task. As a result, next time you have to do the task, you believe you can’t, so you don’t even try. The result is that you can’t, just as you thought.

<br><br>
When things go right, people credit their own abilities and intelligence. The onlookers do the reverse. When they see things go well for someone else, they sometimes credit the environment, or luck.

<br><br>
It is easy to design devices that work well when everything goes as planned. The hard and necessary part of design is to make things work well even when things do not go as planned.

<br><br>
A story tells of Henry Ford’s buying scrapped Ford cars and having his engineers disassemble them to see which parts failed and which were still in good shape. Engineers assumed this was done to find the weak parts and make them stronger. Nope. Ford explained that he wanted to find the parts that were still in good shape. The company could save money if they redesigned these parts to fail at the same time as the others.

<br><br>
We must design for the way people behave,<br/>not for how we would wish them to behave.

<br><br>
original ideas are the easy part. Actually producing the idea as a successful product is what is hard.

<br><br>
In design, one of the most difficult activities is to get the specifications right:

<br><br>