---
layout: post
title: Quotes 4
--- 
To live is the rarest thing in the world. Most people exist, that is all.

<br><br>
Always forgive your enemies; nothing annoys them so much.

<br><br>
As he read, I fell in love the way you fall asleep: slowly, and then all at once.

<br><br>
There are thousands and thousands of people out there leading lives of quiet, screaming desperation, where they work long, hard hours at jobs they hate to enable them to buy things they don't need to impress people they don't like.

<br><br>
Here's to the crazy ones. The misfits. The rebels. The troublemakers. The round pegs in the square holes. The ones who see things differently. They're not fond of rules. And they have no respect for the status quo. You can quote them, disagree with them, glorify or vilify them. About the only thing you can't do is ignore them. Because they change things. They push the human race forward. And while some may see them as the crazy ones, we see genius. Because the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world, are the ones who do.

<br><br>
In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity

<br><br>
Like all magnificent things, it's very simple.

<br><br>
I just did some calculations and I've been able to determine that you're full of shit.

<br><br>
I have never met a man so ignorant that I couldn't learn something from him.

<br><br>
I am free and that is why I am lost.

<br><br>
If a man will begin with certainties, he shall end in doubts; but if he will be content to begin with doubts, he shall end in certainties.

<br><br>
There is nobility in the struggle, you don't have to win.

<br><br>
sometimes you don't need a goal in life, you don't need to know the big picture. you just need to know what you're going to do next!

<br><br>
Only someone who is well prepared has the opportunity to improvise.

<br><br>
The only person you are destined to become is the person you decide to be.

<br><br>
The most beautiful makeup of a woman is passion. But cosmetics are easier to buy.

<br><br>
Whenever you think or you believe or you know, you're a lot of other people: but the moment you feel, you're nobody-but-yourself.

<br><br>
If I am not good to myself, how can I expect anyone else to be good to me?

<br><br>
My religion is very simple. My religion is kindness.

<br><br>
I’m not in this world to live up to your expectations and you’re not in this world to live up to mine.

<br><br>
The way to get started is to quit talking and begin doing. 

<br><br>
Man, when you lose your laugh you lose your footing.

<br><br>
Did you really want to die?"<br/>"No one commits suicide because they want to die."<br/>"Then why do they do it?"<br/>"Because they want to stop the pain.

<br><br>
If you don't go after what you want, you'll never have it. If you don't ask, the answer is always no. If you don't step forward, you're always in the same place.

<br><br>
The surest way to corrupt a youth is to instruct him to hold in higher esteem those who think alike than those who think differently.

<br><br>
Poetry is what gets lost in translation.

<br><br>
It is better to offer no excuse than a bad one.

<br><br>
If everyone demanded peace instead of another television set, then there'd be peace.

<br><br>
Ghosts don't haunt us. That's not how it works. They're present among us because we won't let go of them.

<br><br>
In the end that was the choice you made, and it doesn't matter how hard it was to make it.  It matters that you did.

<br><br>
Autumn is a second spring when every leaf is a flower.

<br><br>
Everyone has secrets. It's just a matter of finding out what they are.

<br><br>
Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding.

<br><br>
Each night, when I go to sleep, I die. And the next morning, when I wake up, I am reborn.

<br><br>
If you win, you need not have to explain...If you lose, you should not be there to explain!

<br><br>
The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.

<br><br>
Dare to live the life you have dreamed for yourself.  Go forward and make your dreams come true.

<br><br>
It matters not how strait the gate, <br/>How charged with punishments the scroll, <br/>I am the master of my fate: <br/>I am the captain of my soul.

<br><br>
There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact.

<br><br>
It is nothing to die.  It is frightful not to live.

<br><br>
Threats are the last resort of a man with no vocabulary.

<br><br>
Books: a beautifully browsable invention that needs no electricity and exists in a readable form no matter what happens.

<br><br>
If everybody minded their own business, the world would go around a great deal faster than it does.

<br><br>
if you love two people at the same time, choose the second. Because if you really loved the first one, you wouldn't have fallen for the second.

<br><br>
He who knows all the answers has not been asked all the questions.

<br><br>
Learning to ignore things is one of the great paths to inner peace.

<br><br>
Question everything. Your love, your religion, your passion. If you don't have questions, you'll never find answers.

<br><br>
Be steady and well-ordered in your life so that you can be fierce and original in your work.

<br><br>
One must live as if it would be forever, and as if one might die each moment. Always both at once.

<br><br>
I don't think there is any truth. There are only points of view. 

<br><br>
It is often in the darkest <br/>skies that we see the <br/>brightest stars.

<br><br>
If you want to be happy, be.

<br><br>
Lord, what fools these mortals be!

<br><br>
Be happy for this moment. This moment is your life.

<br><br>
When I look at my life and its secret colours, I feel like bursting into tears.

<br><br>
So we shall let the reader answer this question for himself: who is the happier man, he who has braved the storm of life and lived or he who has stayed securely on shore and merely existed?

<br><br>
The role of a writer is not to say what we can all say, but what we are unable to say.

<br><br>
Lovers don't finally meet somewhere.  They're in each other all along.

<br><br>
The best way to not feel hopeless is to get up and do something. Don’t wait for good things to happen to you. If you go out and make some good things happen, you will fill the world with hope, you will fill yourself with hope.

<br><br>
The problem with doing nothing is not knowing when you are finished.

<br><br>
One of the deep secrets of life is that all that is really worth the doing is what we do for others.

<br><br>
It is not the length of life, but the depth.

<br><br>
If we listened to our intellect we'd never have a love affair. We'd never have a friendship. We'd never go in business because we'd be cynical: "It's gonna go wrong." Or "She's going to hurt me." Or,"I've had a couple of bad love affairs, so therefore . . ." Well, that's nonsense. You're going to miss life. You've got to jump off the cliff all the time and build your wings on the way down.

<br><br>
In my younger and more vulnerable years my father gave me some advice that I've been turning over in my mind ever since.<br/>"Whenever you feel like criticizing any one," he told me, "just remember that all the people in this world haven't had the advantages that you've had.

<br><br>
Do not spoil what you have by desiring what you have not; remember that what you now have was once among the things you only hoped for.

<br><br>
I think you should be a child for as long as you can. I have been successful for 74 years being able to do that.

<br><br>
Spring is the time of plans and projects.

<br><br>
The unhappiest people in this world, are those who care the most about what other people think.

<br><br>
Everything we hear is an opinion, not a fact. Everything we see is a perspective, not the truth.

<br><br>
Happiness always looks small while you hold it in your hands, but let it go, and you learn at once how big and precious it is.

<br><br>
The course of true love never did run smooth.

<br><br>
But until a person can say deeply and honestly, "I am what I am today because of the choices I made yesterday," that person cannot say, "I choose otherwise.

<br><br>
You get what anybody gets - you get a lifetime.

<br><br>
The most authentic thing about us is our capacity to create, to overcome, to endure, to transform, to love and to be greater than our suffering.

<br><br>
Ask for what you want and be prepared to get it!

<br><br>
Keep your face always toward the sunshine - and shadows will fall behind you.

<br><br>
Courage isn't having the strength to go on - it is going on when you don't have strength.

<br><br>
All thinking men are atheists.

<br><br>
Whoever is careless with the truth in small matters cannot be trusted with important matters

<br><br>
When the snows fall and the white winds blow, the lone wolf dies but the pack survives.

<br><br>
The good thing about science is that it's true whether or not you believe in it.

<br><br>
Never attempt to teach a pig to sing; it wastes your time and annoys the pig.

<br><br>
I think and think and think, I‘ve thought myself out of happiness one million times, but never once into it.

<br><br>
The mark of the immature man is that he wants to die nobly for a cause, while the mark of the mature man is that he wants to live humbly for one.

<br><br>
Ignorance killed the cat; curiosity was framed!

<br><br>
He felt that his whole life was some kind of dream and he sometimes wondered whose it was and whether they were enjoying it.

<br><br>
Man only likes to count his troubles; he doesn't calculate his happiness.

<br><br>
Whenever people agree with me I always feel I must be wrong.

<br><br>
However many holy words you read, however many you speak, what good will they do you if you do not act on upon them?

<br><br>
Blessed are the hearts that can bend; they shall never be broken.

<br><br>
Let no one ever come to you without leaving better and happier. Be the living expression of God's kindness: kindness in your face, kindness in your eyes, kindness in your smile.

<br><br>
Now that she had nothing to lose, she was free.

<br><br>
Being the richest man in the cemetery doesn't matter to me. Going to bed at night saying we've done something wonderful... that's what matters to me.

<br><br>
Most men would rather deny a hard truth than face it.

<br><br>
The price good men pay for indifference to public affairs is to be ruled by evil men.

<br><br>
Educating the mind without educating the heart is no education at all.

<br><br>
Those who cannot change their minds cannot change anything.

<br><br>
Look at everything always as though you were seeing it either for the first or last time: Thus is your time on earth filled with glory.

<br><br>
I know some who are constantly drunk on books as other men are drunk on whiskey.

<br><br>
We are each our own devil, and we make this world our hell.

<br><br>
Do you think that I count the days? There is only one day left, always starting over: it is given to us at dawn and taken away from us at dusk.

<br><br>
One must dare to be happy. 

<br><br>
My grandmother started walking five miles a day when she was sixty. She's ninety-seven now, and we don't know where the heck she is.

<br><br>
Life is either a daring adventure or nothing at all.

<br><br>
Great minds discuss ideas. Average minds discuss events. Small minds discuss people.

<br><br>
The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your thoughts.

<br><br>
Books serve to show a man that those original thoughts of his aren't very new after all.

<br><br>
The things you used to own, now they own you.

<br><br>
Name the greatest of all inventors. Accident.

<br><br>
Your silence will not protect you.

<br><br>
Life is like a prism.  What you see depends on how you turn the glass.

<br><br>
A man is but the product of his thoughts.  What he thinks, he becomes.

<br><br>
Do what is right, not what is easy nor what is popular.

<br><br>
Intelligence plus character-that is the goal of true education.

<br><br>
All our dreams can come true, if we have the courage to pursue them.

<br><br>
Acts of Kindness:<br/>A random act of kindness, no matter how small, can make a tremendous impact on someone else's life.

<br><br>
We shouldn't be looking for heroes, we should be looking for good ideas.

<br><br>
I must learn to be content with being happier than I deserve.

<br><br>
With enough courage, you can do without a reputation.

<br><br>
The finest of pleasures are always the unexpected ones.

<br><br>
To die, it's easy. But you have to struggle for life.

<br><br>
May it be a light to you in dark places, when all other lights go out.

<br><br>
The unfed mind devours itself.

<br><br>
Imagination is like a muscle. I found out that the more I wrote, the bigger it got.

<br><br>
If you want to get laid, go to college. If you want an education, go to the library.

<br><br>
Children learn more from what you are than what you teach.

<br><br>
Anxiety is the dizziness of freedom.

<br><br>
The past is never where you think you left it.

<br><br>
Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough

<br><br>
Nothing takes the taste out of peanut butter quite like unrequited love.

<br><br>
The future depends on what you do today.

<br><br>
A mother is the truest friend we have, when trials heavy and sudden fall upon us; when adversity takes the place of prosperity; when friends desert us; when trouble thickens around us, still will she cling to us, and endeavor by her kind precepts and counsels to dissipate the clouds of darkness, and cause peace to return to our hearts.

<br><br>
Some things in life are out of your control. You can make it a party or a tragedy.

<br><br>
Atticus, he was real nice."<br/><br/>"Most people are, Scout, when you finally see them.

<br><br>
Parents can only give good advice or put them on the right paths, but the final forming of a person's character lies in their own hands.

<br><br>
In the midst of winter, I found there was, within me, an invincible summer.<br/><br/>And that makes me happy. For it says that no matter how hard the world pushes against me, within me, there’s something stronger – something better, pushing right back.

<br><br>
The best way to cheer yourself is to cheer somebody else up.

<br><br>
Whenever you feel like criticizing any one...just remember that all the people in this world haven't had the advantages that you've had.

<br><br>
The most certain sign of wisdom is cheerfulness. 

<br><br>
All happiness depends on courage and work.

<br><br>
Be mindful. Be grateful. Be positive. Be true. Be kind.

<br><br>
Don't cry over someone who wouldn't cry over you.

<br><br>
A person often meets his destiny on the road he took to avoid it.

<br><br>
So many people walk around with a meaningless life. They seem half-asleep, even when they're busy doing things they think are important. This is because they're chasing the wrong things. The way you get meaning into your life is to devote yourself to loving others, devote yourself to your community around you, and devote yourself to creating something that gives you purpose and meaning.

<br><br>
The best way to cheer yourself is to try to cheer someone else up.

<br><br>
The two hardest tests on the spiritual road are the patience to wait for the right moment and the courage not to be disappointed with what we encounter.

<br><br>
Wanting to be someone else is a waste of the person you are.

<br><br>
It's the job that's never started as takes longest to finish.

<br><br>
Maybe our girlfriends are our soulmates and guys are just people to have fun with.

<br><br>
For to know a man's library is, in some measure, to know his mind.

<br><br>
Ignore those that make you fearful and sad, that degrade you back towards disease and death.

<br><br>
Life is a mirror: if you frown at it, it frowns back; if you smile, it returns the greeting.

<br><br>
You’ll miss the best things if you keep your eyes shut.

<br><br>
Only you can control your future.

<br><br>
Everything must be made as simple as possible. But not simpler.

<br><br>
Education: the path from cocky ignorance to miserable uncertainty.

<br><br>
The longer I live, the more I observe that carrying around anger is the most debilitating to the person who bears it.

<br><br>
All a girl really wants is for one guy to prove to her that they are not all the same.

<br><br>
1. Be Impeccable With Your Word<br/>Speak with integrity. Say only what you mean. Avoid using the word to speak against yourself or to gossip about others. Use the power of your word in the direction of truth and love. <br/><br/>2. Don't Take Anything Personally<br/>Nothing others do is because of you. What others say and do is a projection of their own reality, their own dream. When you are immune to the opinions and actions of others, you won't be the victim of needless suffering. <br/><br/>3. Don't Make Assumptions<br/>Find the courage to ask questions and to express what you really want. Communicate with others as clearly as you can to avoid misunderstandings, sadness and drama. With just this one agreement, you can completely transform your life. <br/><br/>4. Always Do Your Best<br/>Your best is going to change from moment to moment; it will be different when you are healthy as opposed to sick. Under any circumstance, simply do your best, and you will avoid self-judgment, self-abuse and regret.

<br><br>
You can only be young once. But you can always be immature.

<br><br>
The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.

<br><br>
If you want to keep a secret, you must also hide it from yourself.

<br><br>
I do not think, sir, you have any right to command me, merely because you are older than I, or because you have seen more of the world than I have; your claim to superiority depends on the use you have made of your time and experience.

<br><br>
Being entirely honest with oneself is a good exercise.

<br><br>
To put everything in balance is good, to put everything in harmony is better.

<br><br>
You will lose what you value most, so treasure it while you can.

<br><br>
Don't let the bastards grind you down.

<br><br>
It is good to have an end to journey toward; but it is the journey that matters, in the end.

<br><br>
I think; therefore I am.

<br><br>
In individuals, insanity is rare; but in groups, parties, nations and epochs, it is the rule.

<br><br>
When you have lost hope, you have lost everything. And when you think all is lost, when all is dire and bleak, there is always hope.

<br><br>
Better to die fighting for freedom then be a prisoner all the days of your life.

<br><br>
We can know only that we know nothing. And that is the highest degree of human wisdom.

<br><br>
The creatures outside looked from pig to man, and from man to pig, and from pig to man again; but already it was impossible to say which was which.

<br><br>
The nitrogen in our DNA, the calcium in our teeth, the iron in our blood, the carbon in our apple pies were made in the interiors of collapsing stars. We are made of starstuff.

<br><br>
Life is too short to waste any amount of time on wondering what other people think about you. In the first place, if they had better things going on in their lives, they wouldn't have the time to sit around and talk about you. What's important to me is not others' opinions of me, but what's important to me is my opinion of myself.

<br><br>
I hope you will have a wonderful year, that you'll dream dangerously and outrageously, that you'll make something that didn't exist before you made it, that you will be loved and that you will be liked, and that you will have people to love and to like in return. And, most importantly (because I think there should be more kindness and more wisdom in the world right now), that you will, when you need to be, be wise, and that you will always be kind.

<br><br>
I'd rather be hated for who I am, than loved for who I am not.

<br><br>
I am not proud, but I am happy; and happiness blinds, I think, more than pride.

<br><br>
Let the first act of every morning be to make the following resolve for the day:<br/><br/>- I shall not fear anyone on Earth. <br/>- I shall fear only God. <br/>- I shall not bear ill will toward anyone. <br/>- I shall not submit to injustice from anyone. <br/>- I shall conquer untruth by truth. And in resisting untruth, I shall put up with all suffering.

<br><br>
I don't think of all the misery, but of the beauty that still remains.

<br><br>
Children have never been very good at listening to their elders, but they have never failed to imitate them.

<br><br>
I've lived through some terrible things in my life, some of which actually happened.

<br><br>
No winter lasts forever; no spring skips its turn.

<br><br>
There's nowhere you can be that isn't where you're meant to be...

<br><br>
Never be bullied into silence. Never allow yourself to be made a victim. Accept no one's definition of your life, but define yourself.

<br><br>
Life is too short to waste your time on people who don’t respect, appreciate, and value you.

<br><br>
Try to be a rainbow in someone's cloud.

<br><br>
Great heroes need great sorrows and burdens, or half their greatness goes unnoticed. It is all part of the fairy tale.

<br><br>
You are not special. You're not a beautiful and unique snowflake. You're the same decaying organic matter as everything else. We're all part of the same compost heap. We're all singing, all dancing crap of the world.

<br><br>
The more one judges, the less one loves.

<br><br>
When the first baby laughed for the first time, its laugh broke into a thousand pieces, and they all went skipping about, and that was the beginning of fairies.

<br><br>
Learn from the mistakes of others.  You can never live long enough to make them all yourself.

<br><br>
Ever has it been that love knows not its own depth until the hour of separation.

<br><br>
Either you deal with what is the reality, or you can be sure that the reality is going to deal with you.

<br><br>
Those who know do not speak. Those who speak do not know.

<br><br>
If everybody is thinking alike, then somebody isn't thinking.

<br><br>
The world is full of magic things, patiently waiting for our senses to grow sharper.

<br><br>
Everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an understanding of ourselves.

<br><br>
I myself have never been able to find out precisely what feminism is: I only know that people call me a feminist whenever I express sentiments that differentiate me from a doormat.

<br><br>
Knowing too much of your future is never a good thing.

<br><br>
You may encounter many defeats, but you must not be defeated.  In fact, it may be necessary to encounter the defeats, so you can know who you are, what you can rise from, how you can still come out of it.

<br><br>
The brick walls are there for a reason. The brick walls are not there to keep us out. The brick walls are there to give us a chance to show how badly we want something. Because the brick walls are there to stop the people who don’t want it badly enough. They’re there to stop the other people.

<br><br>
Courage is found in unlikely places.

<br><br>
To choose doubt as a philosophy of life is akin to choosing immobility as a means of transportation.

<br><br>
I hate to advocate drugs, alcohol, violence, or insanity to anyone, but they've always worked for me.

<br><br>
My course is set for an uncharted sea.

<br><br>
Everything can be taken from a man but one thing: the last of the human freedoms—to choose one’s attitude in any given set of circumstances, to choose one’s own way.

<br><br>
I always arrive late at the office, but I make up for it by leaving early.

<br><br>
That's what careless words do. They make people love you a little less.

<br><br>
The greatest enemy of knowledge is not ignorance, it is the illusion of knowledge.

<br><br>
Friendship- my definition- is built on two things. Respect and trust. Both elements have to be there. And it has to be mutual. You can have respect for someone, but if you don't have trust, the friendship will crumble.

<br><br>
Better a cruel truth than a comfortable delusion.

<br><br>
In the end<br/>these things matter most:<br/>How well did you love?<br/>How fully did you live?<br/>How deeply did you let go?

<br><br>
Nothing great in the world was accomplished without passion.

<br><br>
If you're too open-minded; your brains will fall out.

<br><br>
Very few of us are what we seem.

<br><br>
Kind words can be short and easy to speak, but their echoes are truly endless.

<br><br>
How nice -- to feel nothing, and still get full credit for being alive.

<br><br>
Remember me and smile, for it's better to forget than to remember me and cry.

<br><br>
Boring damned people. All over the earth. Propagating more boring damned people. What a horror show. The earth swarmed with them.

<br><br>
It's not the size of the dog in the fight, it's the size of the fight in the dog.

<br><br>
The heart has its reasons which reason knows not.

<br><br>
those who escape hell<br/>however<br/>never talk about<br/>it<br/>and nothing much<br/>bothers them<br/>after<br/>that.

<br><br>
I am glad you are here with me. Here at the end of all things, Sam.

<br><br>
The future is now. It's time to grow up and be strong. Tomorrow may well be too late.

<br><br>
When everything goes to hell, the people who stand by you without flinching -- they are your family. 

<br><br>
Appear weak when you are strong, and strong when you are weak.

<br><br>
Of all the words of mice and men, the saddest are, "It might have been.

<br><br>
When one tugs at a single thing in nature, he finds it attached to the rest of the world.

<br><br>
The only real prison is fear, and the only real freedom is freedom from fear

<br><br>
Life is not a matter of holding good cards, but of playing a poor hand well.

<br><br>
No one has ever become poor by giving.

<br><br>
Do not read as children do to enjoy themselves, or, as the ambitious do to educate themselves. No, read to live.

<br><br>
Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart.

<br><br>
the free soul is rare, but you know it when you see it - basically because you feel good, very good, when you are near or with them.

<br><br>
I am too fond of reading books to care to write them.

<br><br>
I used to dream about escaping my ordinary life, but my life was never ordinary. I had simply failed to notice how extraordinary it was.

<br><br>
Burdens are for shoulders strong enough to carry them.

<br><br>
Rare as is true love, true friendship is rarer.

<br><br>
Time is the longest distance between two places.

<br><br>
Anyone can hide.  Facing up to things, working through them, that's what makes you strong.

<br><br>
Respect other people's feelings. It might mean nothing to you, but it could mean everything to them.

<br><br>
The greatness of a man is not in how much wealth he acquires, but in his integrity and his ability to affect those around him positively

<br><br>
More smiling, less worrying. More compassion, less judgment. More blessed, less stressed. More love, less hate.

<br><br>
People have forgotten this truth," the fox said. "But you mustn’t forget it. You become responsible forever for what you’ve tamed. You’re responsible for your rose.

<br><br>
I travel not to go anywhere, but to go. I travel for travel's sake. The great affair is to move.

<br><br>
It is never too late to be wise.

<br><br>
You see I usually find myself among strangers because I drift here and there trying to forget the sad things that happened to me.

<br><br>
Let everything happen to you<br/>Beauty and terror<br/>Just keep going<br/>No feeling is final

<br><br>
When people talk, listen completely. Most people never listen.

<br><br>
There is only one good, knowledge, and one evil, ignorance.

<br><br>
Sell your cleverness and buy bewilderment.

<br><br>
Forgive, O Lord, my little jokes on Thee<br/>And I'll forgive Thy great big one on me.

<br><br>
The trouble is if you don’t spend your life yourself, other people spend it for you.

<br><br>
When you play a game of thrones you win or you die.

<br><br>
You can only become truly accomplished at something you love. Don’t make money your goal. Instead pursue the things you love doing and then do them so well that people can’t take their eyes off of you.

<br><br>
I cannot teach anybody anything. I can only make them think

<br><br>
When we are no longer able to change a situation, we are challenged to change ourselves.

<br><br>
What do we live for, if it is not to make life less difficult for each other?

<br><br>
Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.

<br><br>
Even the strongest and bravest must sometimes weep. It shows they have a great heart, one that can feel compassion for others.

<br><br>
The mind once enlightened cannot again become dark.

<br><br>
Friendship marks a life even more deeply than love. Love risks degenerating into obsession, friendship is never anything but sharing.

<br><br>
Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go.

<br><br>
It ain't what they call you, it's what you answer to.

<br><br>
People change and forget to tell each other.

<br><br>
Happiness consists in getting enough sleep.  Just that, nothing more.

<br><br>
Make your mistakes, take your chances, look silly, but keep on going.  Don’t freeze up.

<br><br>
You are not your job, you're not how much money you have in the bank. You are not the car you drive. You're not the contents of your wallet. You are not your fucking khakis. You are all singing, all dancing crap of the world.

<br><br>
Nothing in the world is more dangerous than sincere ignorance and conscientious stupidity.

<br><br>
It does not matter how slowly you go as long as you do not stop.

<br><br>
Respect was invented to cover the empty place where love should be.

<br><br>
I wonder if the snow <i>loves</i> the trees and fields, that it kisses them so gently? And then it covers them up snug, you know, with a white quilt; and perhaps it says, "Go to sleep, darlings, till the summer comes again.

<br><br>
Go on with what your heart tells you, or you will lose all.

<br><br>
Only the dead have seen the end of war.

<br><br>
We need, in love, to practice only this: letting each other go. For holding on comes easily; we do not need to learn it.

<br><br>
We are the music makers, and we are the dreamers of dreams.

<br><br>
Believe nothing you hear, and only one half that you see.

<br><br>
I cannot go to school today"<br/>Said little Peggy Ann McKay.<br/>"I have the measles and the mumps,<br/>A gash, a rash and purple bumps.<br/><br/>My mouth is wet, my throat is dry.<br/>I'm going blind in my right eye.<br/>My tonsils are as big as rocks,<br/>I've counted sixteen chicken pox.<br/><br/>And there's one more - that's seventeen,<br/>And don't you think my face looks green?<br/>My leg is cut, my eyes are blue,<br/>It might be the instamatic flu.<br/><br/>I cough and sneeze and gasp and choke,<br/>I'm sure that my left leg is broke.<br/>My hip hurts when I move my chin,<br/>My belly button's caving in.<br/><br/>My back is wrenched, my ankle's sprained,<br/>My 'pendix pains each time it rains.<br/>My toes are cold, my toes are numb,<br/><br/>I have a sliver in my thumb.<br/><br/>My neck is stiff, my voice is weak,<br/>I hardly whisper when I speak.<br/>My tongue is filling up my mouth,<br/><br/>I think my hair is falling out.<br/><br/>My elbow's bent, my spine ain't straight,<br/>My temperature is one-o-eight.<br/>My brain is shrunk, I cannot hear,<br/><br/>There's a hole inside my ear.<br/><br/>I have a hangnail, and my heart is ...<br/>What? What's that? What's that you say?<br/>You say today is .............. Saturday?<br/><br/>G'bye, I'm going out to play!

<br><br>
It's not always necessary to be strong, but to feel strong.

<br><br>
I'm sick of just liking people. I wish to God I could meet somebody I could respect.

<br><br>
A word to the wise ain't necessary, it's the stupid ones who need advice.

<br><br>
And now that you don't have to be perfect, you can be good.

<br><br>
Whatever you're meant to do, do it now. The conditions are always impossible.

<br><br>
Change will not come if we wait for some other person, or if we wait for some other time.  We are the ones we've been waiting for.  We are the change that we seek.

<br><br>
My bounty is as boundless as the sea,<br/>My love as deep; the more I give to thee,<br/>The more I have, for both are infinite.

<br><br>
Make your own Bible.  Select and collect all the words and sentences that in all your readings have been to you like the blast of a trumpet.

<br><br>
A man who procrastinates in his choosing will inevitably have his choice made for him by circumstance.

<br><br>
The ships hung in the sky in much the same way that bricks don't.

<br><br>
Kindness is a language which the deaf can hear and the blind can see.

<br><br>
Who, being loved, is poor?

<br><br>
When we least expect it, life sets us a challenge to test our courage and willingness to change; at such a moment, there is no point in pretending that nothing has happened or in saying that we are not yet ready. The challenge will not wait. Life does not look back. A week is more than enough time for us to decide whether or not to accept our destiny.

<br><br>
Just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they aren't after you.

<br><br>
Never interrupt your enemy when he is making a mistake.

<br><br>
The purpose of life is to live it, to taste experience to the utmost, to reach out eagerly and without fear for newer and richer experience.

<br><br>
It is a curious thing, Harry, but perhaps those who are best suited to power are those who have never sought it. Those who, like you, have leadership thrust upon them, and take up the mantle because they must, and find to their own surprise that they wear it well.

<br><br>
Talk sense to a fool and he calls you foolish.

<br><br>
If you hate a person, you hate something in him that is part of yourself. What isn't part of ourselves doesn't disturb us.

<br><br>
Raise your words, not voice. It is rain that grows flowers, not thunder.

<br><br>
There is no place like home.

<br><br>
You want to know about anybody? See what books they read, and how they've been read...

<br><br>
If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping with a mosquito.

<br><br>
The only way to deal with an unfree world is to become so absolutely free that your very existence is an act of rebellion.

<br><br>
Time is the coin of your life. You spend it. Do not allow others to spend it for you.

<br><br>
If you end up with a boring miserable life because you listened to your mom, your dad, your teacher, your priest, or some guy on television telling you how to do your shit, then you deserve it.

<br><br>
Lack of direction, not lack of time, is the problem. We all have twenty-four hour days.

<br><br>
Instead of worrying about what you cannot control, shift your energy to what you can create.

<br><br>
If you work really hard, and you're kind, amazing things will happen.

<br><br>
Tell me and I forget, teach me and I may remember, involve me and I learn.

<br><br>
To love oneself is the beginning of a lifelong romance.

<br><br>
Wheresoever you go, go with all your heart.

<br><br>
The more you know who you are, and what you want, the less you let things upset you.

<br><br>
People shouldn't be afraid of their government. Governments should be afraid of their people.

<br><br>
Happiness is holding someone in your arms and knowing you hold the whole world.

<br><br>
Expose yourself to your deepest fear; after that, fear has no power, and the fear of freedom shrinks and vanishes. You are free.

<br><br>
When the heart speaks, the mind finds it indecent to object.

<br><br>
Every time you are tempted to react in the same old way, ask if you want to be a prisoner of the past or a pioneer of the future.

<br><br>
Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear - not absence of fear.

<br><br>
They who can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.

<br><br>
Quotation is a serviceable substitute for wit.

<br><br>
A purpose of human life, no matter who is controlling it, is to love whoever is around to be loved.

<br><br>
If you would tell me the heart of a man, tell me not what he reads, but what he rereads.

<br><br>
Stuff your eyes with wonder, he said, live as if you'd drop dead in ten seconds. See the world. It's more fantastic than any dream made or paid for in factories.

<br><br>
Atheism turns out to be too simple. If the whole universe has no meaning, we should never have found out that it has no meaning...

<br><br>
The trouble is not in dying for a friend, but in finding a friend worth dying for.

<br><br>
You endure what is unbearable, and you bear it. That is all.

<br><br>
When you find your path, you must not be afraid. You need to have sufficient courage to make mistakes. Disappointment, defeat, and despair are the tools God uses to show us the way.

<br><br>
You shall know the truth and the truth shall make you mad.

<br><br>
Do your little bit of good where you are; it's those little bits of good put together that overwhelm the world.

<br><br>
Then the Grinch thought of something he hadn't before!  What if Christmas, he thought, doesn't come from a store. What if Christmas...perhaps...means a little bit more!

<br><br>
Tact is the ability to tell someone to go to hell in such a way that they look forward to the trip.

<br><br>
Don't compromise yourself - you're all you have.

<br><br>
Anyone whose goal is 'something higher' must expect someday to suffer vertigo. What is vertigo? Fear of falling? No, Vertigo is something other than fear of falling. It is the voice of the emptiness below us which tempts and lures us, it is the desire to fall, against which, terrified, we defend ourselves.

<br><br>
But who can say what's best? That's why you need to grab whatever chance you have of happiness where you find it, and not worry about other people too much. My experience tells me that we get no more than two or three such chances in a life time, and if we let them go, we regret it for the rest of our lives.

<br><br>
Everything has beauty, but not everyone sees it.

<br><br>
If you love what you do and are willing to do what it takes, it's within your reach. And it'll be worth every minute you spend alone at night, thinking and thinking about what it is you want to design or build. It'll be worth it, I promise.

<br><br>
You wanna fly, you got to give up the shit that weighs you down.

<br><br>
Youth is happy because it has the capacity to see beauty. Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old.

<br><br>
A truth that's told with bad intent<br/>Beats all the lies you can invent.

<br><br>
Nothing in the world is ever completely wrong. Even a stopped clock is right twice a day.

<br><br>
In a time of destruction, create something.

<br><br>
Learn to value yourself, which means: fight for your happiness.

<br><br>
No persons are more frequently wrong, than those who will not admit they are wrong.

<br><br>
It is absurd to divide people into good and bad. People are either charming or tedious.

<br><br>
Remain true to yourself, child. If you know your own heart, you will always have one friend who does not lie.

<br><br>
If there's a single lesson that life teaches us, it's that wishing doesn't make it so.

<br><br>
There was another life that I might have had, but I am having this one.

<br><br>
We do not grow absolutely, chronologically. We grow sometimes in one dimension, and not in another; unevenly. We grow partially. We are relative. We are mature in one realm, childish in another. The past, present, and future mingle and pull us backward, forward, or fix us in the present. We are made up of layers, cells, constellations.

<br><br>
So many things become beautiful when you really look.

<br><br>
The helpful thought for which you look<br/>Is written somewhere in a book.

<br><br>
What's the good of living if you don't try a few things?

<br><br>
Open your heart. Someone will come. Someone will come for you. But first you must open your heart.

<br><br>
All alone! Whether you like it or not, alone is something you'll be quite a lot!

<br><br>
Your beliefs become your thoughts, <br/>Your thoughts become your words, <br/>Your words become your actions, <br/>Your actions become your habits, <br/>Your habits become your values, <br/>Your values become your destiny.
