---
layout: post
title: Accident
--- 

Never attempt to teach a pig to sing; it wastes your time and annoys the pig.

<br><br>
Be mindful. Be grateful. Be positive. Be true. Be kind.

<br><br>
Whoever is careless with the truth in small matters cannot be trusted with important matters

<br><br>
When the snows fall and the white winds blow, the lone wolf dies but the pack survives.

<br><br>
The good thing about science is that it's true whether or not you believe in it.

<br><br>
I think and think and think, I‘ve thought myself out of happiness one million times, but never once into it.

<br><br>
The mark of the immature man is that he wants to die nobly for a cause, while the mark of the mature man is that he wants to live humbly for one.

<br><br>
Ignorance killed the cat; curiosity was framed!

<br><br>
He felt that his whole life was some kind of dream and he sometimes wondered whose it was and whether they were enjoying it.

<br><br>
Man only likes to count his troubles; he doesn't calculate his happiness.

<br><br>
Whenever people agree with me I always feel I must be wrong.

<br><br>
However many holy words you read, however many you speak, what good will they do you if you do not act on upon them?

<br><br>
Blessed are the hearts that can bend; they shall never be broken.

<br><br>
Let no one ever come to you without leaving better and happier. Be the living expression of God's kindness: kindness in your face, kindness in your eyes, kindness in your smile.

<br><br>
Now that she had nothing to lose, she was free.

<br><br>
Being the richest man in the cemetery doesn't matter to me. Going to bed at night saying we've done something wonderful... that's what matters to me.

<br><br>
Most men would rather deny a hard truth than face it.

<br><br>
The price good men pay for indifference to public affairs is to be ruled by evil men.

<br><br>
Educating the mind without educating the heart is no education at all.

<br><br>
Those who cannot change their minds cannot change anything.

<br><br>
Look at everything always as though you were seeing it either for the first or last time: Thus is your time on earth filled with glory.

<br><br>
I know some who are constantly drunk on books as other men are drunk on whiskey.

<br><br>
We are each our own devil, and we make this world our hell.

<br><br>
Do you think that I count the days? There is only one day left, always starting over: it is given to us at dawn and taken away from us at dusk.

<br><br>
One must dare to be happy. 

<br><br>
My grandmother started walking five miles a day when she was sixty. She's ninety-seven now, and we don't know where the heck she is.

<br><br>
Life is either a daring adventure or nothing at all.

<br><br>
Great minds discuss ideas. Average minds discuss events. Small minds discuss people.

<br><br>
The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your thoughts.

<br><br>
Books serve to show a man that those original thoughts of his aren't very new after all.

<br><br>
The things you used to own, now they own you.

<br><br>
Name the greatest of all inventors. Accident.

<br><br>
Your silence will not protect you.

<br><br>
Life is like a prism.  What you see depends on how you turn the glass.

<br><br>
A man is but the product of his thoughts.  What he thinks, he becomes.

<br><br>
Do what is right, not what is easy nor what is popular.

<br><br>
Intelligence plus character-that is the goal of true education.

<br><br>
All our dreams can come true, if we have the courage to pursue them.

<br><br>
Acts of Kindness:<br/>A random act of kindness, no matter how small, can make a tremendous impact on someone else's life.

<br><br>
We shouldn't be looking for heroes, we should be looking for good ideas.

<br><br>
I must learn to be content with being happier than I deserve.

<br><br>
With enough courage, you can do without a reputation.

<br><br>
The finest of pleasures are always the unexpected ones.

<br><br>
To die, it's easy. But you have to struggle for life.

<br><br>
May it be a light to you in dark places, when all other lights go out.

<br><br>
The unfed mind devours itself.

<br><br>
Imagination is like a muscle. I found out that the more I wrote, the bigger it got.

<br><br>
If you want to get laid, go to college. If you want an education, go to the library.

<br><br>
Children learn more from what you are than what you teach.

<br><br>
Anxiety is the dizziness of freedom.

<br><br>
The past is never where you think you left it.

<br><br>
Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough

<br><br>
Nothing takes the taste out of peanut butter quite like unrequited love.

<br><br>
The future depends on what you do today.

<br><br>
A mother is the truest friend we have, when trials heavy and sudden fall upon us; when adversity takes the place of prosperity; when friends desert us; when trouble thickens around us, still will she cling to us, and endeavor by her kind precepts and counsels to dissipate the clouds of darkness, and cause peace to return to our hearts.

<br><br>
Some things in life are out of your control. You can make it a party or a tragedy.

<br><br>
Atticus, he was real nice."<br/><br/>"Most people are, Scout, when you finally see them.

<br><br>
Parents can only give good advice or put them on the right paths, but the final forming of a person's character lies in their own hands.

<br><br>
In the midst of winter, I found there was, within me, an invincible summer.<br/><br/>And that makes me happy. For it says that no matter how hard the world pushes against me, within me, there’s something stronger – something better, pushing right back.

<br><br>
The best way to cheer yourself is to cheer somebody else up.

<br><br>
Whenever you feel like criticizing any one...just remember that all the people in this world haven't had the advantages that you've had.

<br><br>
The most certain sign of wisdom is cheerfulness. 

<br><br>
All happiness depends on courage and work.

<br><br>
Don't cry over someone who wouldn't cry over you.

<br><br>
A person often meets his destiny on the road he took to avoid it.

<br><br>
So many people walk around with a meaningless life. They seem half-asleep, even when they're busy doing things they think are important. This is because they're chasing the wrong things. The way you get meaning into your life is to devote yourself to loving others, devote yourself to your community around you, and devote yourself to creating something that gives you purpose and meaning.

<br><br>
The best way to cheer yourself is to try to cheer someone else up.

<br><br>
The two hardest tests on the spiritual road are the patience to wait for the right moment and the courage not to be disappointed with what we encounter.

<br><br>
Wanting to be someone else is a waste of the person you are.

<br><br>
It's the job that's never started as takes longest to finish.

<br><br>
Maybe our girlfriends are our soulmates and guys are just people to have fun with.

<br><br>
For to know a man's library is, in some measure, to know his mind.

<br><br>
Ignore those that make you fearful and sad, that degrade you back towards disease and death.

<br><br>
Life is a mirror: if you frown at it, it frowns back; if you smile, it returns the greeting.

<br><br>
You’ll miss the best things if you keep your eyes shut.

<br><br>
Only you can control your future.

<br><br>
Everything must be made as simple as possible. But not simpler.

<br><br>
Education: the path from cocky ignorance to miserable uncertainty.

<br><br>
The longer I live, the more I observe that carrying around anger is the most debilitating to the person who bears it.

<br><br>
All a girl really wants is for one guy to prove to her that they are not all the same.

<br><br>
1. Be Impeccable With Your Word<br/>Speak with integrity. Say only what you mean. Avoid using the word to speak against yourself or to gossip about others. Use the power of your word in the direction of truth and love. <br/><br/>2. Don't Take Anything Personally<br/>Nothing others do is because of you. What others say and do is a projection of their own reality, their own dream. When you are immune to the opinions and actions of others, you won't be the victim of needless suffering. <br/><br/>3. Don't Make Assumptions<br/>Find the courage to ask questions and to express what you really want. Communicate with others as clearly as you can to avoid misunderstandings, sadness and drama. With just this one agreement, you can completely transform your life. <br/><br/>4. Always Do Your Best<br/>Your best is going to change from moment to moment; it will be different when you are healthy as opposed to sick. Under any circumstance, simply do your best, and you will avoid self-judgment, self-abuse and regret.

<br><br>
You can only be young once. But you can always be immature.

<br><br>
The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.

<br><br>
If you want to keep a secret, you must also hide it from yourself.

<br><br>
I do not think, sir, you have any right to command me, merely because you are older than I, or because you have seen more of the world than I have; your claim to superiority depends on the use you have made of your time and experience.

<br><br>
Being entirely honest with oneself is a good exercise.

<br><br>
To put everything in balance is good, to put everything in harmony is better.

<br><br>
You will lose what you value most, so treasure it while you can.

<br><br>
Don't let the bastards grind you down.

<br><br>
It is good to have an end to journey toward; but it is the journey that matters, in the end.

<br><br>
I think; therefore I am.

<br><br>
In individuals, insanity is rare; but in groups, parties, nations and epochs, it is the rule.

<br><br>
When you have lost hope, you have lost everything. And when you think all is lost, when all is dire and bleak, there is always hope.

<br><br>
Better to die fighting for freedom then be a prisoner all the days of your life.

<br><br>
We can know only that we know nothing. And that is the highest degree of human wisdom.

<br><br>
The creatures outside looked from pig to man, and from man to pig, and from pig to man again; but already it was impossible to say which was which.

<br><br>
The nitrogen in our DNA, the calcium in our teeth, the iron in our blood, the carbon in our apple pies were made in the interiors of collapsing stars. We are made of starstuff.

<br><br>
Life is too short to waste any amount of time on wondering what other people think about you. In the first place, if they had better things going on in their lives, they wouldn't have the time to sit around and talk about you. What's important to me is not others' opinions of me, but what's important to me is my opinion of myself.

<br><br>
I hope you will have a wonderful year, that you'll dream dangerously and outrageously, that you'll make something that didn't exist before you made it, that you will be loved and that you will be liked, and that you will have people to love and to like in return. And, most importantly (because I think there should be more kindness and more wisdom in the world right now), that you will, when you need to be, be wise, and that you will always be kind.

<br><br>
I'd rather be hated for who I am, than loved for who I am not.

<br><br>
I am not proud, but I am happy; and happiness blinds, I think, more than pride.

<br><br>
Let the first act of every morning be to make the following resolve for the day:<br/><br/>- I shall not fear anyone on Earth. <br/>- I shall fear only God. <br/>- I shall not bear ill will toward anyone. <br/>- I shall not submit to injustice from anyone. <br/>- I shall conquer untruth by truth. And in resisting untruth, I shall put up with all suffering.

<br><br>
I don't think of all the misery, but of the beauty that still remains.

<br><br>
Children have never been very good at listening to their elders, but they have never failed to imitate them.

<br><br>
