---
layout: post
title: Quotes 5
--- 
> Above all, don't lie to yourself. The man who lies to himself and listens to his own lie comes to a point that he cannot distinguish the truth within him, or around him, and so loses all respect for himself and for others. And having no respect he ceases to love.

<br><br>
Don't tell me the moon is shining; show me the glint of light on broken glass.

<br><br>
None but ourselves can free our minds.

<br><br>
You probably wouldn’t worry about what people think of you if you could know how seldom they do.

<br><br>
Freedom is not worth having if it does not include the freedom to make mistakes.

<br><br>
Nobody can hurt me without my permission.

<br><br>
By three methods we may learn wisdom: First, by reflection, which is noblest; Second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third by experience, which is the bitterest.

<br><br>
The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched. They must be felt with the heart

<br><br>
What happens when people open their hearts?"<br/>"They get better.

<br><br>
Live, travel, adventure, bless, and don't be sorry.

<br><br>
I don't trust people who don't love themselves and tell me, 'I love you.' ... There is an African saying which is: Be careful when a naked person offers you a shirt.

<br><br>
I don't want to die without any scars.

<br><br>
If you have a garden and a library, you have everything you need.

<br><br>
Love is a fire. But whether it is going to warm your hearth or burn down your house, you can never tell.

<br><br>
No book is really worth reading at the age of ten which is not equally – and often far more – worth reading at the age of fifty and beyond.

<br><br>
Resist much, obey little.

<br><br>
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it).

<br><br>
Never be afraid to raise your voice for honesty and truth and compassion against injustice and lying and greed. If people all over the world...would do this, it would change the earth.

<br><br>
And, in the end<br/>The love you take<br/>is equal to the love you make.

<br><br>
The simple things are also the most extraordinary things, and only the wise can see them.

<br><br>
Painting is poetry that is seen rather than felt, and poetry is painting that is felt rather than seen.

<br><br>
You have to die a few times before you can really<br/>live.

<br><br>
Every child is an artist. The problem is how to remain an artist once he grows up.

<br><br>
To be nobody but <br/>yourself in a world <br/>which is doing its best day and night to make you like <br/>everybody else means to fight the hardest battle <br/>which any human being can fight and never stop fighting.

<br><br>
When a man gives his opinion, he's a man. When a woman gives her opinion, she's a bitch.

<br><br>
You have your way. I have my way. As for the right way, the correct way, and the only way, it does not exist.

<br><br>
All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others.

<br><br>
Love doesn't just sit there, like a stone, it has to be made, like bread; remade all the time, made new.

<br><br>
It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat.

<br><br>
Books are mirrors: you only see in them what you already have inside you.

<br><br>
I like your Christ, I do not like your Christians. Your Christians are so unlike your Christ.

<br><br>
Pain and suffering are always inevitable for a large intelligence and a deep heart. The really great men must, I think, have great sadness on earth.

<br><br>
I love people who make me laugh. I honestly think it's the thing I like most, to laugh. It cures a multitude of ills. It's probably the most important thing in a person.

<br><br>
Nothing of me is original. I am the combined effort of everyone I've ever known.

<br><br>
If you are going through hell, keep going.

<br><br>
Stop acting so small. You are the universe in ecstatic motion.

<br><br>
Some people feel the rain. Others just get wet.

<br><br>
War is peace. <br/>Freedom is slavery. <br/>Ignorance is strength.

<br><br>
But I don’t want to go among mad people," Alice remarked.<br/>"Oh, you can’t help that," said the Cat: "we’re all mad here. I’m mad. You’re mad."<br/>"How do you know I’m mad?" said Alice.<br/>"You must be," said the Cat, "or you wouldn’t have come here.

<br><br>
I lie to myself all the time. But I never believe me.

<br><br>
Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.

<br><br>
My ambition is handicapped by laziness

<br><br>
Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster. And if you gaze long enough into an abyss, the abyss will gaze back into you.

<br><br>
The important thing is not to stop questioning.  Curiosity has its own reason for existence.  One cannot help but be in awe when he contemplates the mysteries of eternity, of life, of the marvelous structure of reality.  It is enough if one tries merely to comprehend a little of this mystery each day.<br/><br/>—"Old Man's Advice to Youth: 'Never Lose a Holy Curiosity.'" <i>LIFE Magazine</i> (2 May 1955) p. 64

<br><br>
People are afraid of themselves, of their own reality; their feelings most of all. People talk about how great love is, but that’s bullshit. Love hurts. Feelings are disturbing. People are taught that pain is evil and dangerous. How can they deal with love if they’re afraid to feel? Pain is meant to wake us up. People try to hide their pain. But they’re wrong. Pain is something to carry, like a radio. You feel your strength in the experience of pain. It’s all in how you carry it. That’s what matters. Pain is a feeling. Your feelings are a part of you. Your own reality. If you feel ashamed of them, and hide them, you’re letting society destroy your reality. You should stand up for your right to feel your pain.

<br><br>
But who prays for Satan? Who, in eighteen centuries, has had the common humanity to pray for the one sinner that needed it most?

<br><br>
No tears in the writer, no tears in the reader.  No surprise in the writer, no surprise in the reader.

<br><br>
When you have eliminated all which is impossible, then whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.

<br><br>
Man is least himself when he talks in his own person. Give him a mask, and he will tell you the truth.

<br><br>
Men occasionally stumble over the truth, but most of them pick themselves up and hurry off as if nothing ever happened.

<br><br>
I wonder how many people I've looked at all my life and never seen.

<br><br>
There are worse crimes than burning books.  One of them is not reading them.

<br><br>
We're all going to die, all of us, what a circus! That alone should make us love each other but it doesn't. We are terrorized and flattened by trivialities, we are eaten up by nothing.

<br><br>
Either write something worth reading or do something worth writing.

<br><br>
If you can't fly then run, if you can't run then walk, if you can't walk then crawl, but whatever you do you have to keep moving forward.

<br><br>
There are few people whom I really love, and still fewer of whom I think well. The more I see of the world, the more am I dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of merit or sense.

<br><br>
Hell is empty and all the devils are here.

<br><br>
You gain strength, courage and confidence by every experience in which you really stop to look fear in the face. You are able to say to yourself, 'I have lived through this horror. I can take the next thing that comes along.' You must do the thing you think you cannot do.

<br><br>
I can be changed by what happens to me.  But I refuse to be reduced by it.<br/><br/>(Popular misquote of "You may not control all the events that happen to you, but you can decide not to be reduced by them.")

<br><br>
My experience of life is that it is not divided up into genres; it’s a horrifying, romantic, tragic, comical, science-fiction cowboy detective novel. You know, with a bit of pornography if you're lucky.

<br><br>
Here's all you have to know about men and women: women are crazy, men are stupid. And the main reason women are crazy is that men are stupid.

<br><br>
The best index to a person's character is how he treats people who can't do him any good, and how he treats people who can't fight back.

<br><br>
The most important thing is to enjoy your life—to be happy—it's all that matters.

<br><br>
Never be bullied into silence. Never allow yourself to be made a victim. Accept no one’s definition of your life; define yourself.

<br><br>
It is hard enough to remember my opinions, without also remembering my reasons for them!

<br><br>
Experience is merely the name men gave to their mistakes.

<br><br>
The loneliest moment in someone’s life is when they are watching their whole world fall apart, and all they can do is stare blankly.

<br><br>
There is a theory which states that if ever anyone discovers exactly what the Universe is for and why it is here, it will instantly disappear and be replaced by something even more bizarre and inexplicable. <br/><br/>There is another theory which states that this has already happened.

<br><br>
You have enemies? Good. That means you've stood up for something, sometime in your life.

<br><br>
It is so hard to leave—until you leave. And then it is the easiest goddamned thing in the world.

<br><br>
Talent hits a target no one else can hit. Genius hits a target no one else can see.

<br><br>
Monsters are real, and ghosts are real too. They live inside us, and sometimes, they win.

<br><br>
Libraries were full of ideas—perhaps the most dangerous and powerful of all weapons.

<br><br>
Whether you think you can, or you think you can't--you're right.

<br><br>
Life can only be understood backwards; but it must be lived forwards.

<br><br>
Think of all the beauty still left around you and be happy.

<br><br>
The mind is its own place, and in itself can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven..

<br><br>
I am not young enough to know everything.

<br><br>
If a cluttered desk is a sign of a cluttered mind, of what, then, is an empty desk a sign?

<br><br>
Always do what you are afraid to do.

<br><br>
One day I will find the right words, and they will be simple.

<br><br>
Make it a rule never to give a child a book you would not read yourself.

<br><br>
Faithless is he that says farewell when the road darkens.

<br><br>
One, remember to look up at the stars and not down at your feet. Two, never give up work. Work gives you meaning and purpose and life is empty without it.  Three, if you are lucky enough to find love, remember it is there and don't throw it away.

<br><br>
Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that matter.

<br><br>
Of all sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these, 'It might have been.

<br><br>
A life spent making mistakes is not only more honorable, but more useful than a life spent doing nothing.

<br><br>
I wanted you to see what real courage is, instead of getting the idea that courage is a man with a gun in his hand. It's when you know you're licked before you begin, but you begin anyway and see it through no matter what.<br/>- Atticus Finch

<br><br>
When his life was ruined, his family killed, his farm destroyed, Job knelt down on the ground and yelled up to the heavens, "Why god? Why me?" and the thundering voice of God answered, There's just something about you that pisses me off.

<br><br>
Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional.

<br><br>
In the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.

<br><br>
When I have a little money, I buy books; and if I have any left, I buy food and clothes.

<br><br>
Your task is not to seek for love, but merely to seek and find all the barriers within yourself that you have built against it.

<br><br>
I like work: it fascinates me. I can sit and look at it for hours.

<br><br>
Sometimes you climb out of bed in the morning and you think, I'm not going to make it, but you laugh inside — remembering all the times you've felt that way.

<br><br>
Sarcasm is the last refuge of the imaginatively bankrupt.

<br><br>
The world is a book and those who do not travel read only one page.

<br><br>
The secret of life, though, is to fall seven times and to get up eight times.

<br><br>
Who controls the past controls the future. Who controls the present controls the past.

<br><br>
Isn't it nice to think that tomorrow is a new day with no mistakes in it yet?

<br><br>
Eleanor was right. She never looked nice. She looked like art, and art wasn't supposed to look nice; it was supposed to make you feel something.


<br><br>
It's really a wonder that I haven't dropped all my ideals, because they seem so absurd and impossible to carry out. Yet I keep them, because in spite of everything, I still believe that people are really good at heart.

<br><br>
You educate a man; you educate a man. You educate a woman; you educate a generation.

<br><br>
When someone shows you who they are believe them; the first time.

<br><br>
All the world is made of faith, and trust, and pixie dust.

<br><br>
To love. To be loved. To never forget your own insignificance. To never get used to the unspeakable violence and the vulgar disparity of life around you. To seek joy in the saddest places. To pursue beauty to its lair. To never simplify what is complicated or complicate what is simple. To respect strength, never power. Above all, to watch. To try and understand. To never look away. And never, never to forget.

<br><br>
How lucky I am to have known somebody and something that saying goodbye to is so damned awful.

<br><br>
You know the world is going crazy when the best rapper is a white guy, the best golfer is a black guy, the tallest guy in the NBA is Chinese, the Swiss hold the America's Cup, France is accusing the U.S. of arrogance, Germany doesn't want to go to war, and the three most powerful men in America are named "Bush", "Dick", and "Colin." Need I say more?

<br><br>
Chance is perhaps the pseudonym of God when he does not want to sign.

<br><br>
There are two basic motivating forces: fear and love. When we are afraid, we pull back from life. When we are in love, we open to all that life has to offer with passion, excitement, and acceptance. We need to learn to love ourselves first, in all our glory and our imperfections. If we cannot love ourselves, we cannot fully open to our ability to love others or our potential to create. Evolution and all hopes for a better world rest in the fearlessness and open-hearted vision of people who embrace life.

<br><br>
Don't touch any of my weapons without my permission."<br/>"Well, there goes my plan for selling them all on eBay," Clary muttered.<br/>"Selling them on what?"<br/>Clary smiled blandly at him. "A mythical place of great magical power.

<br><br>
In a good bookroom you feel in some mysterious way that you are absorbing the wisdom contained in all the books through your skin, without even opening them.

<br><br>
Do not read, as children do, to amuse yourself, or like the ambitious, for the purpose of instruction. No, read in order to live.

<br><br>
Most people are other people. Their thoughts are someone else's opinions, their lives a mimicry, their passions a quotation.

<br><br>
Don't think or judge, just listen.

<br><br>
What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.

<br><br>
The soul is healed by being with children.

<br><br>
I don't know half of you half as well as I should like; and I like less than half of you half as well as you deserve.

<br><br>
Nothing is impossible, the word itself says 'I'm possible'!

<br><br>
If you were half as funny as you think you are, you'd be twice as funny as you really are.

<br><br>
The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.

<br><br>
Keep away from people who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people always do that, but the really great make you feel that you, too, can become great.

<br><br>
How wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single moment before starting to improve the world.

<br><br>
It's far better to be unhappy alone than unhappy with someone — so far.

<br><br>
And above all, watch with glittering eyes the whole world around you because the greatest secrets are always hidden in the most unlikely places. Those who don't believe in magic will never find it.

<br><br>
If you don't know where you're going, any road'll take you there

<br><br>
When we honestly ask ourselves which person in our lives mean the most to us, we often find that it is those who, instead of giving advice, solutions, or cures, have chosen rather to share our pain and touch our wounds with a warm and tender hand. The friend who can be silent with us in a moment of despair or confusion, who can stay with us in an hour of grief and bereavement, who can tolerate not knowing, not curing, not healing and face with us the reality of our powerlessness, that is a friend who cares.

<br><br>
An eye for an eye will only make the whole world blind.

<br><br>
If you're gonna be two-faced at least make one of them pretty.

<br><br>
Perhaps one did not want to be loved so much as to be understood.

<br><br>
Until I feared I would lose it, I never loved to read. One does not love breathing.

<br><br>
Music expresses that which cannot be put into words and that which cannot remain silent

<br><br>
Tis better to have loved and lost<br/>Than never to have loved at all.

<br><br>
I can never read all the books I want; I can never be all the people I want and live all the lives I want. I can never train myself in all the skills I want. And why do I want? I want to live and feel all the shades, tones and variations of mental and physical experience possible in my life. And I am horribly limited.

<br><br>
It's so hard to forget pain, but it's even harder to remember sweetness.  We have no scar to show for happiness. We learn so little from peace.

<br><br>
What you're supposed to do when you don't like a thing is change it. If you can't change it, change the way you think about it. Don't complain.

<br><br>
Knowing yourself is the beginning of all wisdom.

<br><br>
He’s not perfect. You aren’t either, and the two of you will never be perfect. But if he can make you laugh at least once, causes you to think twice, and if he admits to being human and making mistakes, hold onto him and give him the most you can. He isn’t going to quote poetry, he’s not thinking about you every moment, but he will give you a part of him that he knows you could break. Don’t hurt him, don’t change him, and don’t expect for more than he can give. Don’t analyze. Smile when he makes you happy, yell when he makes you mad, and miss him when he’s not there. Love hard when there is love to be had. Because perfect guys don’t exist, but there’s always one guy that is perfect for you.

<br><br>
Just because you have the emotional range of a teaspoon doesn't mean we all have.

<br><br>
Numbing the pain for a while will make it worse when you finally feel it.

<br><br>
To die will be an awfully big adventure.

<br><br>
We believe in ordinary acts of bravery, in the courage that drives one person to stand up for another.

<br><br>
You have to write the book that wants to be written. And if the book will be too difficult for grown-ups, then you write it for children.

<br><br>
The books that the world calls immoral are books that show the world its own shame.

<br><br>
Piglet sidled up to Pooh from behind. <br/>"Pooh!" he whispered.<br/>"Yes, Piglet?"<br/>"Nothing," said Piglet, taking Pooh's paw. "I just wanted to be sure of you.

<br><br>
Do not pity the dead, Harry. Pity the living, and, above all those who live without love.

<br><br>
When one door of happiness closes, another opens; but often we look so long at the closed door that we do not see the one which has been opened for us.

<br><br>
It matters not what someone is born, but what they grow to be.

<br><br>
The difference between genius and stupidity is: genius has its limits.

<br><br>
Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance, you must keep moving.

<br><br>
You may not be her first, her last, or her only. She loved before she may love again. But if she loves you now, what else matters? She's not perfect—you aren't either, and the two of you may never be perfect together but if she can make you laugh, cause you to think twice, and admit to being human and making mistakes, hold onto her and give her the most you can. She may not be thinking about you every second of the day, but she will give you a part of her that she knows you can break—her heart. So don't hurt her, don't change her, don't analyze and don't expect more than she can give. Smile when she makes you happy, let her know when she makes you mad, and miss her when she's not there.

<br><br>
Only once in your life, I truly believe, you find someone who can completely turn your world around. You tell them things that you’ve never shared with another soul and they absorb everything you say and actually want to hear more. You share hopes for the future, dreams that will never come true, goals that were never achieved and the many disappointments life has thrown at you. When something wonderful happens, you can’t wait to tell them about it, knowing they will share in your excitement. They are not embarrassed to cry with you when you are hurting or laugh with you when you make a fool of yourself. Never do they hurt your feelings or make you feel like you are not good enough, but rather they build you up and show you the things about yourself that make you special and even beautiful. There is never any pressure, jealousy or competition but only a quiet calmness when they are around. You can be yourself and not worry about what they will think of you because they love you for who you are. The things that seem insignificant to most people such as a note, song or walk become invaluable treasures kept safe in your heart to cherish forever. Memories of your childhood come back and are so clear and vivid it’s like being young again. Colours seem brighter and more brilliant. Laughter seems part of daily life where before it was infrequent or didn’t exist at all. A phone call or two during the day helps to get you through a long day’s work and always brings a smile to your face. In their presence, there’s no need for continuous conversation, but you find you’re quite content in just having them nearby. Things that never interested you before become fascinating because you know they are important to this person who is so special to you. You think of this person on every occasion and in everything you do. Simple things bring them to mind like a pale blue sky, gentle wind or even a storm cloud on the horizon. You open your heart knowing that there’s a chance it may be broken one day and in opening your heart, you experience a love and joy that you never dreamed possible. You find that being vulnerable is the only way to allow your heart to feel true pleasure that’s so real it scares you. You find strength in knowing you have a true friend and possibly a soul mate who will remain loyal to the end. Life seems completely different, exciting and worthwhile. Your only hope and security is in knowing that they are a part of your life.

<br><br>
Do one thing every day that scares you.

<br><br>
Love never dies a natural death. It dies because we don't know how to replenish its source. It dies of blindness and errors and betrayals. It dies of illness and wounds; it dies of weariness, of witherings, of tarnishings.

<br><br>
The trouble with having an open mind, of course, is that people will insist on coming along and trying to put things in it.

<br><br>
It is what you read when you don't have to that determines what you will be when you can't help it.

<br><br>
It is impossible to live without failing at something, unless you live so cautiously that you might as well not have lived at all - in which case, you fail by default.

<br><br>
Of course it is happening inside your head, Harry, but why on earth should that mean that it is not real?

<br><br>
Today you are You, that is truer than true. There is no one alive who is Youer than You.

<br><br>
To the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure.

<br><br>
If you want your children to be intelligent, read them fairy tales. If you want them to be more intelligent, read them more fairy tales.

<br><br>
If one cannot enjoy reading a book over and over again, there is no use in reading it at all.

<br><br>
Logic will get you from A to Z; imagination will get you everywhere.

<br><br>
The more that you read, the more things you will know. The more that you learn, the more places you'll go.

<br><br>
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind,<br/>And therefore is winged Cupid painted blind.

<br><br>
Do what you can, with what you have, where you are.

<br><br>
Love all, trust a few, do wrong to none.

<br><br>
You have brains in your head. You have feet in your shoes. You can steer yourself any direction you choose. You're on your own. And you know what you know. And YOU are the one who'll decide where to go...

<br><br>
That which does not kill us makes us stronger.

<br><br>
A reader lives a thousand lives before he dies, said Jojen. The man who never reads lives only one.

<br><br>
It is never too late to be what you might have been.

<br><br>
It takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our friends.

<br><br>
If you judge people, you have no time to love them.

<br><br>
My thoughts are stars I cannot fathom into constellations.

<br><br>
I'm not upset that you lied to me, I'm upset that from now on I can't believe you.

<br><br>
I have always imagined that Paradise will be a kind of library.

<br><br>
We don't see things as they are, we see them as we are.

<br><br>
If you only read the books that everyone else is reading, you can only think what everyone else is thinking.

<br><br>
Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover.

<br><br>
You know you're in love when you can't fall asleep because reality is finally better than your dreams.

<br><br>
Design is really an act of communication, which means having a deep understanding of the person with whom the designer is communicating.

<br><br>
Principles of design:<br/>1. Use both knowledge in the world and knowledge in the head.<br/>2. Simplify the structure of tasks.<br/>3. Make things visible: bridge gulfs between Execution and Evaluation.<br/>4. Get the mappings right.<br/>5. Exploit the power of constraints.<br/>6. Design for error.<br/>7. When all else fails, standardize.

<br><br>
Rule of thumb: if you think something is clever and sophisticated beware-it is probably self-indulgence.

<br><br>
Learning should take place when it is needed, when the learner is interested, not according to some arbitrary, fixed schedule

<br><br>
Good design is actually a lot harder to notice than poor design, in part because good designs fit our needs so well that the design is invisible,

<br><br>
A brilliant solution to the wrong problem can be worse than no solution at all: solve the correct problem.

<br><br>
Fail often, fail fast,

<br><br>
Any time you see signs or labels added to a device, it is an indication of bad design: a simple lock should not require instructions.

<br><br>
What makes something simple or complex? It's not the number of dials or controls or how many features it has: It is whether the person using the device has a good conceptual model of how it operates.

<br><br>
The vicious cycle starts: if you fail at something, you think it is your fault. Therefore you think you can’t do that task. As a result, next time you have to do the task, you believe you can’t, so you don’t even try. The result is that you can’t, just as you thought.

<br><br>
When things go right, people credit their own abilities and intelligence. The onlookers do the reverse. When they see things go well for someone else, they sometimes credit the environment, or luck.

<br><br>
It is easy to design devices that work well when everything goes as planned. The hard and necessary part of design is to make things work well even when things do not go as planned.

<br><br>
A story tells of Henry Ford’s buying scrapped Ford cars and having his engineers disassemble them to see which parts failed and which were still in good shape. Engineers assumed this was done to find the weak parts and make them stronger. Nope. Ford explained that he wanted to find the parts that were still in good shape. The company could save money if they redesigned these parts to fail at the same time as the others.

<br><br>
We must design for the way people behave,<br/>not for how we would wish them to behave.

<br><br>
original ideas are the easy part. Actually producing the idea as a successful product is what is hard.

<br><br>
In design, one of the most difficult activities is to get the specifications right:

<br><br>