---
layout: post
title: The Prism
--- 

A curated list of ideas from hundreds of great people 

Full quote info at <a href="https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/list/24616331-selim">goodreads</a>


<br><br>
> Indifference and neglect often do much more damage than outright dislike.

<br><br>
> You cannot find peace by avoiding life.

<br><br>
Friendship is unnecessary, like philosophy, like art.... It has no survival value; rather it is one of those things which give value to survival.


<br>
<br>
All that is gold does not glitter,<br/>Not all those who wander are lost;<br/>The old that is strong does not wither,<br/>Deep roots are not reached by the frost.<br/><br/>From the ashes a fire shall be woken,<br/>A light from the shadows shall spring;<br/>Renewed shall be blade that was broken,<br/>The crownless again shall be king.

<br><br>
I speak to everyone in the same way, whether he is the garbage man or the president of the university.

<br><br>
The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing.

<br><br>
Be yourself; everyone else is already taken.

<br><br>
Two things are infinite: the universe and human stupidity; and I'm not sure about the universe.

<br><br>
Be who you are and say what you feel, because those who mind don't matter, and those who matter don't mind.

<br><br>
So many books, so little time.

<br><br>
If you want to know what a man's like, take a good look at how he treats his inferiors, not his equals.

<br><br>
If you tell the truth, you don't have to remember anything.

<br><br>
I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.

<br><br>
It is better to be hated for what you are than to be loved for what you are not.

<br><br>
It is our choices, Harry, that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities.

<br><br>
The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself to be a fool.

<br><br>
It is not a lack of love, but a lack of friendship that makes unhappy marriages.

<br><br>
If you can't explain it to a six year old, you don't understand it yourself.

<br><br>
Folks are usually about as happy as they make their minds up to be.


<br><br>
Not all those who wander are lost.

<br><br>
The truth." Dumbledore sighed. "It is a beautiful and terrible thing, and should therefore be treated with great caution.


<br><br>
All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.

<br><br>
If more of us valued food  and cheer and song above hoarded gold, it would be a merrier world.

<br><br>
In a time of deceit telling the truth is a revolutionary act.

<br><br>
All happy families are alike; each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.

<br><br>
Everyone sees what you appear to be, few experience what you really are.

<br><br>
Deserves it! I daresay he does. Many that live deserve death. And some that die deserve life. Can you give it to them? Then do not be too eager to deal out death in judgement. For even the very wise cannot see all ends.

<br><br>
And now here is my secret, a very simple secret: It is only with the heart that one can see rightly; what is essential is invisible to the eye.

<br><br>
Words can be like X-rays if you use them properly -- they’ll go through anything. You read and you’re pierced.

<br><br>
Finish each day and be done with it. You have done what you could.  Some blunders and absurdities no doubt crept in; forget them as soon as you can. Tomorrow is a new day.  You shall begin it serenely and with too high a spirit to be encumbered with your old nonsense.

<br><br>
Time is an illusion. Lunchtime doubly so.


<br><br>
Anyone who is capable of getting themselves made President should on no account be allowed to do the job.

<br><br>
Happy slaves are the bitterest enemies of freedom.

<br><br>
It's not true that I had nothing on. I had the radio on.

<br><br>
Everyone should be able to do one card trick, tell two jokes, and recite three poems, in case they are ever trapped in an elevator.

<br><br>
That's why they call it the American Dream, because you have to be asleep to believe it.

<br><br>
Don't be so humble - you are not that great.

<br><br>
Always go to other people's funerals, otherwise they won't come to yours.

<br><br>
Never miss a good chance to shut up.

<br><br>
Never trust people who smile constantly. They're either selling something or not very bright.

<br><br>
A fit, healthy body—that is the best fashion statement

<br><br>
I may not have gone where I intended to go, but I think I have ended up where I needed to be.

<br><br>
I love deadlines. I love the whooshing noise they make as they go by.


<br><br>
The fact that we live at the bottom of a deep gravity well, on the surface of a gas covered planet going around a nuclear fireball 90 million miles away and think this to be normal is obviously some indication of how skewed our perspective tends to be.

<br><br>
Don't Panic.

<br><br>
Isn't it enough to see that a garden is beautiful without having to believe that there are fairies at the bottom of it too?

<br><br>
The major problem&mdash;<i>one</i> of the major problems, for there are several&mdash;one of the many major problems with governing people is that of whom you get to do it; or rather of who manages to get people to let them do it to them. <br/>To summarize: it is a well-known fact that those people who must <i>want</i> to rule people are, ipso facto, those least suited to do it. <br/>To summarize the summary: anyone who is capable of getting themselves made President should on no account be allowed to do the job.


<br><br>
I'd far rather be happy than right any day.

<br><br>
The Answer to the Great Question... Of Life, the Universe and Everything... Is... Forty-two,' said Deep Thought, with infinite majesty and calm.

<br><br>
Don't believe anything you read on the net. Except this. Well, including this, I suppose.

<br><br>
Life is wasted on the living.

<br><br>
I think fish is nice, but then I think that rain is wet, so who am I to judge?

<br><br>
The quality of any advice anybody has to offer has to be judged against the quality of life they actually lead.

<br><br>
Don't you hate that? Uncomfortable silences. Why do we feel it's necessary to yak about bullshit in order to be comfortable? That's when you know you've found somebody special. When you can just shut the fuck up for a minute and comfortably enjoy the silence.

<br><br>
That is why it is so important to let certain things go. To release them. To cut loose. People need to understand that no one is playing with marked cards; sometimes we win and sometimes we lose. Don't expect to get anything back, don't expect recognition for your efforts, don't expect your genius to be discovered or your love to be understood. Complete the circle. Not out of pride, inability or arrogance, but simply because whatever it is no longer fits in your life. Close the door, change the record, clean the house, get rid of the dust. Stop being who you were and become who you are.

<br><br>
Never memorize something that you can look up.

<br><br>
I don't know the question, but sex is definitely the answer.

<br><br>
I have great faith in fools - self-confidence my friends will call it.

<br><br>
The person, be it gentleman or lady, who has not pleasure in a good novel, must be intolerably stupid.

<br><br>
A day without sunshine is like, you know, night.

<br><br>
Never put off till tomorrow what may be done day after tomorrow just as well.


<br><br>
Give a man a fire and he's warm for a day, but set fire to him and he's warm for the rest of his life.

<br><br>
There's a fine line between genius and insanity. I have erased this line.

<br><br>
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again. Then quit. No use being a damn fool about it.

<br><br>
Happiness is a warm puppy.

<br><br>
Happiness is having a large, loving, caring, close-knit family in another city.

<br><br>
Do your thing and don't care if they like it.



<br><br>
History will be kind to me for I intend to write it.

<br><br>
Finally, from so little sleeping and so much reading, his brain dried up and he went completely out of his mind.

<br><br>
Say 'provoking' again. Your mouth looks provocative when you do.

<br><br>
Fighting for peace is like screwing for virginity.


<br><br>
If you ever find yourself in the wrong story, leave.


<br><br>
Because you can't argue with all the fools in the world. It's easier to let them have their way, then trick them when they're not paying attention.

<br><br>
It is forbidden to kill; therefore all murderers are punished unless they kill in large numbers and to the sound of trumpets.


<br><br>
You're an idiot."<br/>"I've never claimed to be otherwise.

<br><br>
A smile is a curve that sets everything straight.

<br><br>
Confidence is ignorance. If you're feeling cocky, it's because there's something you don't know.

<br><br>
Wisdom comes from experience. Experience is often a result of lack of wisdom.

<br><br>
The longer and more carefully we look at a funny story, the sadder it becomes.

<br><br>
Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large groups.


<br><br>
I'm killing time while I wait for life to shower me with meaning and happiness.

<br><br>
Of course motivation is not permanent. But then, neither is bathing; but it is something you should do on a regular basis.

<br><br>
I never forget a face, but in your case I'll be glad to make an exception.

<br><br>
Humor is reason gone mad.

<br><br>
No good deed goes unpunished.

<br><br>
The easy confidence with which I know another man's religion is folly teaches me to suspect that my own is also.

<br><br>
As long as we don't die, this is gonna be one hell of a story.

<br><br>
People have an annoying habit of remembering things they shouldn't.

<br><br>
The Little Boy and the Old Man<br/><br/>Said the little boy, "Sometimes I drop my spoon."<br/>Said the old man, "I do that too."<br/>The little boy whispered, "I wet my pants."<br/>I do that too," laughed the little old man.<br/>Said the little boy, "I often cry."<br/>The old man nodded, "So do I."<br/>But worst of all," said the boy, "it seems<br/>Grown-ups don't pay attention to me."<br/>And he felt the warmth of a wrinkled old hand.<br/>I know what you mean," said the little old man.

<br><br>
A banker is a fellow who lends you his umbrella when the sun is shining, but wants it back the minute it begins to rain.

<br><br>
I have found out that there ain't no surer way to find out whether you like people or hate them than to travel with them.

<br><br>
Half of seeming clever is keeping your mouth shut at the right times.

<br><br>
In real life, I assure you, there is no such thing as algebra. 

<br><br>
Always do sober what you said you'd do drunk. That will teach you to keep your mouth shut.

<br><br>
Ho! Ho! Ho! To the bottle I go<br/>To heal my heart and drown my woe<br/>Rain may fall, and wind may blow<br/>And many miles be still to go<br/>But under a tall tree will I lie<br/>And let the clouds go sailing by

<br><br>
Here's to alcohol, the rose colored glasses of life.

<br><br>
I went to the worst of bars hoping to get killed but all I could do was to get drunk again.

<br><br>
Drink because you are happy, but never because you are miserable.

<br><br>
Invisible things are the only realities.

<br><br>
Sometimes the road less traveled is less traveled for a reason

<br><br>
A man's true character comes out when he's drunk.


<br><br>
There is a thin line that separates laughter and pain, comedy and tragedy, humor and hurt.

<br><br>
This is my knife. It is very sharp and very eager to hurt you.

<br><br>
FEAR stands for fuck everything and run.


<br><br>
Attitude is a little thing that makes a big difference.

<br><br>
You can live to be a hundred if you give up all the things that make you want to live to be a hundred.

<br><br>
I find my life is a lot easier the lower I keep my expectations.


<br><br>
In America, anyone can become president. That's the problem.


<br><br>
He attacked everything in life with a mix of extraordinary genius and naive incompetence, and it was often difficult to tell which was which.

<br><br>
I believe entertainment can aspire to be art, and can become art, but if you set out to make art you're an idiot.

<br><br>
Between men and women there is no friendship possible. There is passion, enmity, worship, love, but no friendship.

<br><br>
The nuclear arms race is like two sworn enemies standing waist deep in gasoline, one with three matches, the other with five.

<br><br>
Adventures are never fun while you're having them.

<br><br>
I really don't see anything romantic in proposing. It is very romantic to be in love. But there is nothing romantic about a definite proposal. Why, one may be accepted. One usually is, I believe. Then the excitement is all over. The very essence of romance is uncertainty. If ever I get married, I'll certainly try to forget the fact.

<br><br>
The very essence of romance is uncertainty.

<br><br>
If you love somebody, let them go, for if they return, they were always yours. If they don't, they never were.

<br><br>
I was smiling yesterday,I am smiling today and I will smile tomorrow.Simply because life is too short to cry for anything.

<br><br>
Never close your lips to those whom you have already opened your heart.

<br><br>
You know what charm is: a way of getting the answer yes without having asked any clear question.

<br><br>
Just ignore everything they say and only pay attention to what they do.

<br><br>
Oh no.  Don't smile.  You'll kill me.  I stop breathing when you smile.

<br><br>
Those sweet lips. My, oh my, I could kiss those lips all night long.<br/><br/>Good things come to those who wait.

<br><br>
If you can capture a woman's imagination, then you will have her. But imagination is a strange creature. It needs time and distance to function properly.

<br><br>
You always get more respect when you don't have a happy ending.

<br><br>
If a man wants you, nothing can keep him away. If he doesn't want you, nothing can make him stay.

<br><br>
Don't kiss me like a woman if you're going to treat me like a child.

<br><br>
Well, that depends, I suppose. I heard someone once say that men dance the same way they have sex. So, if you want everyone here to think you're the kind of guy who just sits around and—" <br/>He stood up. "Let's dance.

<br><br>
what a luxury it was for people to hold their loved ones whenever they wanted

<br><br>
It's only terrible to have nothing to wait for.

<br><br>
When you find a guy who calls you beautiful instead of hot, who calls you back when you hang up on him, who will stand in front of you when other’s cast stones, or will stay awake just to watch you sleep, who wants to show you off to the world when you are in sweats, who will hold your hand when your sick, who thinks your pretty without makeup,  the one who turns to his friends and say, ‘that’s her’, the one that would bear your rejection because losing you means losing his will to live, who kisses you when you screw up, watches the stars and names one for you and will hold and rock that baby for hours so you can sleep…..you marry him all over again.

<br><br>
Is this the part where you start tearing off strips of your shirt to bind my wounds?"<br/>"If you wanted me to rip my clothes off, you should have just asked.

<br><br>
Those who don't believe in magic will never find it.

<br><br>
The truth will set you free, but first it will piss you off.

<br><br>
You can never be overdressed or overeducated.

<br><br>
Happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.

<br><br>
What is the point of being alive if you don't at least try to do something remarkable?

<br><br>
Love is patient,  love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. It is not rude, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres.

<br><br>
When I despair, I remember that all through history the way of truth and love have always won. There have been tyrants and murderers, and for a time, they can seem invincible, but in the end, they always fall. Think of it--always.


<br><br>
I can't give you a sure-fire formula for success, but I can give you a formula for failure: try to please everybody all the time.

<br><br>
Do what you feel in your heart to be right – for you’ll be criticized anyway.


<br><br>
Everyone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself.

<br><br>
You're going to come across people in your life who will say all the right words at all the right times. But in the end, it's always their actions you should judge them by. It's actions, not words, that matter.

<br><br>
When we love, we always strive to become better than we are. When we strive to become better than we are, everything around us becomes better too.

<br><br>
Happiness is not something ready made. It comes from your own actions.

<br><br>
Peace begins with a smile..

<br><br>
You don't have to burn books to destroy a culture. Just get people to stop reading them.

<br><br>
Sometimes you wake up. Sometimes the fall kills you. And sometimes, when you fall, you fly.

<br><br>
Death ends a life, not a relationship.

<br><br>
Count your age by friends, not years. Count your life by smiles, not tears.

<br><br>
There is only one thing that makes a dream impossible to achieve: the fear of failure.

<br><br>
May your coming year be filled with magic and dreams and good madness. I hope you read some fine books and kiss someone who thinks you're wonderful, and don't forget to make some art -- write or draw or build or sing or live as only you can. And I hope, somewhere in the next year, you surprise yourself.

<br><br>
Promise me you'll always remember: You're braver than you believe, and stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think.

<br><br>
For attractive lips, speak words of kindness.<br/>For lovely eyes, seek out the good in people.<br/>For a slim figure, share your food with the hungry.<br/>For beautiful hair, let a child run his fingers through it once a day.<br/>For poise, walk with the knowledge you’ll never walk alone.<br/>...<br/>We leave you a tradition with a future.<br/>The tender loving care of human beings will never become obsolete.<br/>People even more than things have to be restored, renewed, revived, reclaimed and redeemed and redeemed and redeemed.<br/>Never throw out anybody.<br/><br/>Remember, if you ever need a helping hand, you’ll find one at the end of your arm.<br/>As you grow older, you will discover that you have two hands: one for helping yourself, the other for helping others.<br/><br/>Your “good old days” are still ahead of you, may you have many of them.


<br><br>
All that we see or seem is but a dream within a dream.

<br><br>
Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed, citizens can change the world. Indeed, it is the only thing that ever has.


<br><br>
First they ignore you. Then they ridicule you. And then they attack you and want to burn you. And then they build monuments to you.

<br><br>
You can't force love, I realized. It's there or it isn't. If it's not there, you've got to be able to admit it. If it is there, you've got to do whatever it takes to protect the ones you love.

<br><br>
When you are courting a nice girl an hour seems like a second. When you sit on a red-hot cinder a second seems like an hour. That's relativity.

<br><br>
Whatever you are, be a good one.

<br><br>
Promise Yourself<br/><br/>To be so strong that nothing<br/>can disturb your peace of mind.<br/>To talk health, happiness, and prosperity<br/>to every person you meet.<br/><br/>To make all your friends feel<br/>that there is something in them<br/>To look at the sunny side of everything<br/>and make your optimism come true.<br/><br/>To think only the best, to work only for the best,<br/>and to expect only the best.<br/>To be just as enthusiastic about the success of others<br/>as you are about your own.<br/><br/>To forget the mistakes of the past<br/>and press on to the greater achievements of the future.<br/>To wear a cheerful countenance at all times<br/>and give every living creature you meet a smile.<br/><br/>To give so much time to the improvement of yourself<br/>that you have no time to criticize others.<br/>To be too large for worry, too noble for anger, too strong for fear,<br/>and too happy to permit the presence of trouble.<br/><br/>To think well of yourself and to proclaim this fact to the world,<br/>not in loud words but great deeds.<br/>To live in faith that the whole world is on your side<br/>so long as you are true to the best that is in you.

<br><br>
Women are meant to be loved, not to be understood.


<br><br>
Never love anyone who treats you like you're ordinary.


<br><br>
I would always rather be happy than dignified.

<br><br>
Destroying things is much easier than making them.

<br><br>
A good friend will always stab you in the front.

<br><br>
Facts do not cease to exist because they are ignored.

<br><br>
Be kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a harder battle.

<br><br>
Once upon a time there was a boy who loved a girl, and her laughter was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering.

<br><br>
In the depth of winter, I finally learned that within me there lay an invincible summer.

<br><br>
A clever person solves a problem. A wise person avoids it.

<br><br>
We should all start to live before we get too old. Fear is stupid. So are regrets.

<br><br>
Some women choose to follow men, and some women choose to follow their dreams. If you're wondering which way to go, remember that your career will never wake up and tell you that it doesn't love you anymore.

<br><br>
Substitute 'damn' every time you're inclined to write 'very;' your editor will delete it and the writing will be just as it should be.

<br><br>
I love sleep. My life has the tendency to fall apart when I'm awake, you know?

<br><br>
It's only after we've lost everything that we're free to do anything.

<br><br>
May you live every day of your life.

<br><br>
Get busy living or get busy dying.

<br><br>
There are no good girls gone wrong - just bad girls found out.

<br><br>
This is a good sign, having a broken heart. It means we have tried for something.

<br><br>
You can't stay in your corner of the Forest waiting for others to come to you. You have to go to them sometimes.

<br><br>
The meeting of two personalities is like the contact of two chemical substances: if there is any reaction, both are transformed.

<br><br>
The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves.

<br><br>
Every heart sings a song, incomplete, until another heart whispers back. Those who wish to sing always find a song. At the touch of a lover, everyone becomes a poet.

<br><br>
Never go to bed mad. Stay up and fight.

<br><br>
Never laugh at live dragons.

<br><br>
Anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination.

<br><br>
Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one.

<br><br>
It is the unknown we fear when we look upon death and darkness, nothing more.

<br><br>
I hope that in this year to come, you make mistakes. Because if you are making mistakes...you're Doing Something.

<br><br>
You will always be fond of me. I represent to you all the sins you never had the courage to commit.

<br><br>
Don’t go around saying the world owes you a living. The world owes you nothing. It was here first.

<br><br>
And those who were seen dancing were thought to be insane by those who could not hear the music.

<br><br>
Man is the only creature who refuses to be what he is.

<br><br>
The planet is fine. The people are fucked.

<br><br>
If we knew what it was we were doing, it would not be called research, would it?

<br><br>
I learned this, at least, by my experiment: that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.

<br><br>
I have no special talents. I am only passionately curious.

<br><br>
Happiness in intelligent people is the rarest thing I know.

<br><br>
It is one of the blessings of old friends that you can afford to be stupid with them.

<br><br>
Have you ever noticed how ‘What the hell’ is always the right decision to make?

<br><br>
The truth is rarely pure and never simple.

<br><br>
Never tell the truth to people who are not worthy of it.

<br><br>
Be not afraid of greatness. Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and others have greatness thrust upon them.

<br><br>
[Dean] “My dear fellow, who will let you?”<br/><br/>[Roark] “That’s not the point. The point is, who will stop me?

<br><br>
Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new.

<br><br>
And, when you want something, all the universe conspires in helping you to achieve it.

<br><br>
And in that moment, I swear we were infinite.

<br><br>
But better to get hurt by the truth than comforted with a lie.

<br><br>
You never really understand a person until you consider things from his point of view... Until you climb inside of his skin and walk around in it.

<br><br>
I wish it need not have happened in my time," said Frodo.<br/>"So do I," said Gandalf, "and so do all who live to see such times. But that is not for them to decide. All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.

<br><br>
Remember, if the time should come when you have to make a choice between what is right and what is easy, remember what happened to a boy who was good, and kind, and brave, because he strayed across the path of Lord Voldemort.  Remember Cedric Diggory.

<br><br>
Some day you will be old enough to start reading fairy tales again.

<br><br>
It’s no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then.

<br><br>
We are what we pretend to be, so we must be careful about what we pretend to be.

<br><br>
The fear of death follows from the fear of life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.

<br><br>
A lie can travel half way around the world while the truth is putting on its shoes.

<br><br>
I don't go looking for trouble. Trouble usually finds me.

<br><br>
A thing is not necessarily true because a man dies for it.

<br><br>
Somewhere, something incredible is waiting to be known.

<br><br>
what matters most is how well you walk through the fire

<br><br>
He never went out without a book under his arm, and he often came back with two.

<br><br>
Think before you speak.  Read before you think.

<br><br>
They love their hair because they're not smart enough to love something more interesting.

<br><br>
Any fool can know. The point is to understand.

<br><br>
As usual, there is a great woman behind every idiot.

<br><br>
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.

<br><br>
Life is a disease: sexually transmitted, and invariably fatal.

<br><br>
Why fit in when you were born to stand out?

<br><br>
Kiss me, and you will see how important I am.

<br><br>
Everything in the world is about sex except sex. Sex is about power.

<br><br>
The world is indeed full of peril, and in it there are many dark places; but still there is much that is fair, and though in all lands love is now mingled with grief, it grows perhaps the greater.

<br><br>
Some tourists think Amsterdam is a city of sin, but in truth it is a city of freedom. And in freedom, most people find sin.

<br><br>
Never allow someone to be your priority while allowing yourself to be their option.

<br><br>
There are too many books I haven’t read, too many places I haven’t seen, too many memories I haven’t kept long enough.

<br><br>
Life is pain, highness. Anyone who says differently is selling something.

<br><br>
Turn your wounds into wisdom.

<br><br>
And once the storm is over, you won’t remember how you made it through, how you managed to survive. You won’t even be sure, whether the storm is really over. But one thing is certain. When you come out of the storm, you won’t be the same person who walked in. That’s what this storm’s all about.

<br><br>
Whatever it is you're seeking won't come in the form you're expecting.

<br><br>
Man may have discovered fire, but women discovered how to play with it.

<br><br>
What matters in life is not what happens to you but what you remember and how you remember it.

<br><br>
The unexamined life is not worth living.

<br><br>
When I get sad, I stop being sad and be awesome instead.

<br><br>
Suit up!

<br><br>
Believe it or not, I was not always as awesome as I am today

<br><br>
Strike the shepherd and the sheep will scatter

<br><br>
Never waste valuable time, or mental peace of mind, on the affairs of others—that is too high a price to pay.

<br><br>
Despise The Free Lunch

<br><br>
The longer one hesitates before the door, the more estranged one becomes.

<br><br>
The world is my country, science is my religion.

<br><br>
Smile, because it confuses people. Smile, because it's easier than explaining what is killing you inside.

<br><br>
As you know, madness is like gravity...all it takes is a little push.

<br><br>
Nobody panics when things go “according to plan”. Even if the plan is horrifying!

<br><br>
If you’re good at something, never do it for free.

<br><br>
Why so serious? >:)

<br><br>
And...here...we...go...

<br><br>
Their morals, their code; it's a bad joke. Dropped at the first sign of trouble. They're only as good as the world allows them to be. You'll see- I'll show you. When the chips are down these, uh, civilized people? They'll eat each other. See I'm not a monster, I'm just ahead of the curve.

<br><br>
‎"Introduce a little anarchy. Upset the established order, and everything becomes chaos. I'm an agent of chaos...

<br><br>
Was Du erlebst, kann keine Macht der Welt Dir rauben. (What you have experienced, no power on earth can take from you.) Not only our experiences, but all we have done, whatever great thoughts we may have had and all we have suffered, all this is not lost, though it is past; we have brought it into being. Having been is a kind of being, and perhaps the surest kind.

<br><br>
Insanity is doing the same thing, over and over again, but expecting different results.

<br><br>
Never let your sense of morals prevent you from doing what is right.

<br><br>
Violence is the last refuge of the incompetent.

<br><br>
It pays to be obvious, especially if you have a reputation for subtlety.

<br><br>
Now any dogma, based primarily on faith and emotionalism, is a dangerous weapon to use on others, since it is almost impossible to guarantee that the weapon will never be turned on the user.

<br><br>
I wanted to be a psychological engineer, but we lacked the facilities, so I did the next best thing - I went into politics. It's practically the same thing.

<br><br>
Scientific truth is beyond loyalty and disloyalty.

<br><br>
Any fool can tell a crisis when it arrives. The real service to the state is to detect it in embryo.

<br><br>
It has been my philosophy of life that difficulties vanish when faced boldly.

<br><br>
Past glories are poor feeding.

<br><br>
The Three Theorems of Psychohistorical Quantitivity:<br/><br/>The population under scrutiny is oblivious to the existence of the science of Psychohistory.<br/>The time periods dealt with are in the region of 3 generations.<br/>The population must be in the billions (±75 billions) for a statistical probability to have a psychohistorical validity.

<br><br>
A horse having a wolf as a powerful and dangerous enemy lived in constant fear of his life. Being driven to desperation, it occurred to him to seek a strong ally. Whereupon he approached a man, and offered an alliance, pointing out that the wolf was likewise an enemy of the man. The man accepted the partnership at once and offered to kill the wolf immediately, if his new partner would only co-operate by placing his greater speed at the man’s disposal. The horse was willing, and allowed the man to place bridle and saddle upon him. The man mounted, hunted down the wolf, and killed him. “The horse, joyful and relieved, thanked the man, and said: ‘Now that our enemy is dead, remove your bridle and saddle and restore my freedom.’ “Whereupon the man laughed loudly and replied, ‘Never!’ and applied the spurs with a will.

<br><br>
If you're born in a cubicle and grow up in a corridor, and work in a cell, and vacation in a crowded sun-room, then coming up into the open with nothing but sky over you might just give you a nervous breakdown.

<br><br>
Society is much more easily soothed than one's own conscience.

<br><br>
Plain question and plain answer make the shortest road out of most perplexities.

<br><br>
Be yourself. Don't worry about what other people are thinking of you, because they're probably feeling the same kind of scared, horrible feelings that everyone does.

<br><br>
The moral of the story is even though that seemed like the end of the world back then, right now I can look back on it and laugh. And if anyone is going through something similar right now just know it will get better.

<br><br>
Live in the moment... but don't be led by the moment, or the people who belong to it.

<br><br>
One of my rules is never to look sideways at what other people are doing but instead, do what I feel is right.

<br><br>
You have to be a responsible adult and support yourself because no one else is going to do it for you.

<br><br>
Be the change that you wish to see in the world.

<br><br>
Without music, life would be a mistake.

<br><br>
A day without  laughter is a day wasted.

<br><br>
Wise men speak because they have something to say; fools because they have to say something.

<br><br>
Trust yourself. You know more than you think you do.

<br><br>
You do not write your life with words...You write it with actions.  What you think is not important.  It is only important what you <i>do</i>.

<br><br>
Without deviation from the norm, progress is not possible.

<br><br>
Do not fear to be eccentric in opinion, for every opinion now accepted was once eccentric.

<br><br>
You only live once, but if you do it right, once is enough.

<br><br>
Women and cats will do as they please, and men and dogs should relax and get used to the idea.

<br><br>
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder and it may be necessary from time to time to give a stupid or misinformed beholder a black eye.

<br><br>
Some people never go crazy. What truly horrible lives they must lead.

<br><br>
Reality continues to ruin my life.

<br><br>
Don't cry because it's over, smile because it happened.

<br><br>
In three words I can sum up everything I've learned about life: it goes on.

<br><br>
You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching,<br/>Love like you'll never be hurt,<br/>Sing like there's nobody listening,<br/>And live like it's heaven on earth.

<br><br>
There are only two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle.

<br><br>
It does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live.

<br><br>
Good friends, good books, and a sleepy conscience: this is the ideal life.

<br><br>
Life is what happens to us while we are making other plans.

<br><br>
Everything you can imagine is real.

<br><br>
Sometimes the questions are complicated and the answers are simple.

<br><br>
Life isn't about finding yourself. Life is about creating yourself.

<br><br>
Who are you to judge the life I live?<br/>I know I'm not perfect<br/>-and I don't live to be-<br/>but before you start pointing fingers...<br/>make sure you hands are clean!

<br><br>
Things change. And friends leave. Life doesn't stop for anybody.

<br><br>
He has achieved success who has lived well, laughed often, and loved much;<br/>Who has enjoyed the trust of pure women, the respect of intelligent men and the love of little children;<br/>Who has filled his niche and accomplished his task;<br/>Who has never lacked appreciation of Earth's beauty or failed to express it;<br/>Who has left the world better than he found it,<br/>Whether an improved poppy, a perfect poem, or a rescued soul;<br/>Who has always looked for the best in others and given them the best he had;<br/>Whose life was an inspiration;<br/>Whose memory a benediction.

<br><br>
When someone loves you, the way they talk about you is different. You feel safe and comfortable.

<br><br>
<b><i>The Paradoxical Commandments</i></b><br/><br/>People are illogical, unreasonable, and self-centered.<br/>Love them anyway.<br/><br/>If you do good, people will accuse you of selfish ulterior motives.<br/>Do good anyway.<br/><br/>If you are successful, you will win false friends and true enemies.<br/>Succeed anyway.<br/><br/>The good you do today will be forgotten tomorrow.<br/>Do good anyway.<br/><br/>Honesty and frankness make you vulnerable.<br/>Be honest and frank anyway.<br/><br/>The biggest men and women with the biggest ideas can be shot down by the smallest men and women with the smallest minds.<br/>Think big anyway.<br/><br/>People favor underdogs but follow only top dogs.<br/>Fight for a few underdogs anyway.<br/><br/>What you spend years building may be destroyed overnight.<br/>Build anyway.<br/><br/>People really need help but may attack you if you do help them.<br/>Help people anyway.<br/><br/>Give the world the best you have and you'll get kicked in the teeth.<br/>Give the world the best you have anyway.

<br><br>
For every minute you are angry you lose sixty seconds of happiness.

<br><br>
Love is that condition in which the happiness of another person is essential to your own.

<br><br>
Time you enjoy wasting is not wasted time.

<br><br>
You will never be happy if you continue to search for what happiness consists of. You will never live if you are looking for the meaning of life.

<br><br>
There's nothing like deep breaths after laughing that hard. Nothing in the world like a sore stomach for the right reasons.

<br><br>
Every man has his secret sorrows which the world knows not; and often times we call a man cold when he is only sad.

<br><br>
They say a person needs just three things to be truly happy in this world: someone to love, something to do, and something to hope for.

<br><br>
You cannot protect yourself from sadness without protecting yourself from happiness.

<br><br>
It isn't what you have or who you are or where you are or what you are doing that makes you happy or unhappy. It is what you think about it.

<br><br>
No medicine cures what happiness cannot.

<br><br>
You can't be happy unless you're unhappy sometimes".

<br><br>
Of all forms of caution, caution in love is perhaps the most fatal to true happiness.

<br><br>
There comes a time when the world gets quiet and the only thing left is your own heart. So you'd better learn the sound of it. Otherwise you'll never understand what it's saying.

<br><br>
Time flies like an arrow; fruit flies like a banana.

<br><br>
Don't waste your time with explanations: people only hear what they want to hear.

<br><br>
Don't spend time beating on a wall, hoping to transform it into a door. 

<br><br>
A man who dares to waste one hour of time has not discovered the value of life.

<br><br>
Unfortunately, the clock is ticking, the hours are going by. The past increases, the future recedes. Possibilities decreasing, regrets mounting.

<br><br>
Time is an illusion.

<br><br>
Time is a created thing. To say 'I don't have time,' is like saying, 'I don't want to.

<br><br>
Those who make the worst use of their time are the first to complain of its brevity.

<br><br>
Don’t waste your time in anger, regrets, worries, and grudges. Life is too short to be unhappy.

<br><br>
Time doesn’t heal emotional pain, you need to learn how to let go.

<br><br>
It's being here now that's important. There's no past and there's no future. Time is a very misleading thing. All there is ever, is the now. We can gain experience from the past, but we can't relive it; and we can hope for the future, but we don't know if there is one.

<br><br>
No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.

<br><br>
Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.

<br><br>
Darkness cannot drive out darkness: only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate: only love can do that.

<br><br>
We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars.

<br><br>
I've never fooled anyone. I've let people fool themselves. They didn't bother to find out who and what I was. Instead they would invent a character for me. I wouldn't argue with them. They were obviously loving somebody I wasn't.

<br><br>
Courage is the most important of all the virtues because without courage, you can't practice any other virtue consistently.

<br><br>
Attitude is a choice. Happiness is a choice. Optimism is a choice. Kindness is a choice. Giving is a choice. Respect is a choice. Whatever choice you make makes you. Choose wisely.

<br><br>
We are addicted to our thoughts. We cannot change anything if we cannot change our thinking.

<br><br>
People tend to complicate their own lives, as if living weren't already complicated enough.

<br><br>
Happiness is not the absence of problems, it's the ability to deal with them.

<br><br>
Take responsibility of your own happiness, never put it in other people’s hands.

<br><br>
Success is not final, failure is not fatal: it is the courage to continue that counts.

<br><br>
Try not to become a man of success. Rather become a man of value.

<br><br>
It is better to fail in originality than to succeed in imitation.

<br><br>
Success is stumbling from failure to failure with no loss of enthusiasm.

<br><br>
If A is a success in life, then A equals x plus y plus z. Work is x; y is play; and z is keeping your mouth shut

<br><br>
I'm a success today because I had a friend who believed in me and I didn't have the heart to let him down.

<br><br>
Sometimes it takes a good fall to really know where you stand

<br><br>
All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence; then success is sure. 

<br><br>
The Road Not Taken<br/><br/>Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,<br/>And sorry I could not travel both	<br/>And be one traveler, long I stood	<br/>And looked down one as far as I could	<br/>To where it bent in the undergrowth;	        <br/> <br/>Then took the other, as just as fair,	<br/>And having perhaps the better claim,	<br/>Because it was grassy and wanted wear;	<br/>Though as for that the passing there	<br/>Had worn them really about the same,	        <br/> <br/>And both that morning equally lay	<br/>In leaves no step had trodden black.	<br/>Oh, I kept the first for another day!	<br/>Yet knowing how way leads on to way,	<br/>I doubted if I should ever come back.	        <br/> <br/>I shall be telling this with a sigh	<br/>Somewhere ages and ages hence:	<br/>Two roads diverged in a wood, and I—	<br/>I took the one less traveled by,	<br/>And that has made all the difference.

<br><br>
We love the things we love for what they are.

<br><br>
Tell me, what is it you plan to do <br/>with your one wild and precious life?

<br><br>
Unbeing dead isn't being alive.

<br><br>
One ought, every day at least, to hear a little song, read a good poem, see a fine picture, and, if it were possible, to speak a few reasonable words.

<br><br>
Still round the corner there may wait<br/> A new road or a secret gate<br/>And though I oft have passed them by<br/> A day will come at last when I<br/>Shall take the hidden paths that run<br/> West of the Moon, East of the Sun.

<br><br>
I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead; <br/>I lift my eyes and all is born again.

<br><br>
Listen to the mustn'ts, child. Listen to the don'ts. Listen to the shouldn'ts, the impossibles, the won'ts. Listen to the never haves, then listen close to me... Anything can happen, child. Anything can be.

<br><br>
There is neither happiness nor misery in the world; there is only the comparison of one state with another, nothing more. He who has felt the deepest grief is best able to experience supreme happiness. We must have felt what it is to die, Morrel, that we may appreciate the enjoyments of life. <br/>" Live, then, and be happy, beloved children of my heart, and never forget, that until the day God will deign to reveal the future to man, all human wisdom is contained in these two words, 'Wait and Hope.

<br><br>
If you're reading this...<br/>Congratulations, you're alive.<br/>If that's not something to smile about,<br/>then I don't know what is.

<br><br>
You cannot swim for new horizons until you have courage to lose sight of the shore.

<br><br>
Life's under no obligation to give us what we expect.

<br><br>
But I know, somehow, that only when it is dark enough can you see the stars.

<br><br>
Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed.

<br><br>
The things you do for yourself are gone when you are gone, but the things you do for others remain as your legacy.

<br><br>
The very least you can do in your life is figure out what you hope for. 
And the most you can do is live inside that hope. 
Not admire it from a distance but live right in it, under its roof.

<br><br>
You can cut all the flowers but you cannot keep Spring from coming.


<br><br>
Don’t walk in front of me… I may not follow<br/>Don’t walk behind me… I may not lead<br/>Walk beside me… just be my friend


