---
layout: post
title: Choice
---
Everything can be taken from a man but one thing: the last of the human freedoms—to choose one’s attitude in any given set of circumstances, to choose one’s own way.


<br><br>
I've lived through some terrible things in my life, some of which actually happened.

<br><br>
No winter lasts forever; no spring skips its turn.

<br><br>
There's nowhere you can be that isn't where you're meant to be...

<br><br>
Never be bullied into silence. Never allow yourself to be made a victim. Accept no one's definition of your life, but define yourself.

<br><br>
Life is too short to waste your time on people who don’t respect, appreciate, and value you.

<br><br>
Try to be a rainbow in someone's cloud.

<br><br>
Great heroes need great sorrows and burdens, or half their greatness goes unnoticed. It is all part of the fairy tale.

<br><br>
You are not special. You're not a beautiful and unique snowflake. You're the same decaying organic matter as everything else. We're all part of the same compost heap. We're all singing, all dancing crap of the world.

<br><br>
The more one judges, the less one loves.

<br><br>
When the first baby laughed for the first time, its laugh broke into a thousand pieces, and they all went skipping about, and that was the beginning of fairies.

<br><br>
Learn from the mistakes of others.  You can never live long enough to make them all yourself.

<br><br>
Ever has it been that love knows not its own depth until the hour of separation.

<br><br>
Either you deal with what is the reality, or you can be sure that the reality is going to deal with you.

<br><br>
Those who know do not speak. Those who speak do not know.

<br><br>
If everybody is thinking alike, then somebody isn't thinking.

<br><br>
The world is full of magic things, patiently waiting for our senses to grow sharper.

<br><br>
Everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an understanding of ourselves.

<br><br>
I myself have never been able to find out precisely what feminism is: I only know that people call me a feminist whenever I express sentiments that differentiate me from a doormat.

<br><br>
Knowing too much of your future is never a good thing.

<br><br>
You may encounter many defeats, but you must not be defeated.  In fact, it may be necessary to encounter the defeats, so you can know who you are, what you can rise from, how you can still come out of it.

<br><br>
The brick walls are there for a reason. The brick walls are not there to keep us out. The brick walls are there to give us a chance to show how badly we want something. Because the brick walls are there to stop the people who don’t want it badly enough. They’re there to stop the other people.

<br><br>
Courage is found in unlikely places.

<br><br>
To choose doubt as a philosophy of life is akin to choosing immobility as a means of transportation.

<br><br>
I hate to advocate drugs, alcohol, violence, or insanity to anyone, but they've always worked for me.

<br><br>
My course is set for an uncharted sea.

<br><br>
I always arrive late at the office, but I make up for it by leaving early.

<br><br>
That's what careless words do. They make people love you a little less.

<br><br>
The greatest enemy of knowledge is not ignorance, it is the illusion of knowledge.

<br><br>
Friendship- my definition- is built on two things. Respect and trust. Both elements have to be there. And it has to be mutual. You can have respect for someone, but if you don't have trust, the friendship will crumble.

<br><br>
Better a cruel truth than a comfortable delusion.

<br><br>
In the end<br/>these things matter most:<br/>How well did you love?<br/>How fully did you live?<br/>How deeply did you let go?

<br><br>
Nothing great in the world was accomplished without passion.

<br><br>
If you're too open-minded; your brains will fall out.

<br><br>
Very few of us are what we seem.

<br><br>
Kind words can be short and easy to speak, but their echoes are truly endless.

<br><br>
How nice -- to feel nothing, and still get full credit for being alive.

<br><br>
Remember me and smile, for it's better to forget than to remember me and cry.

<br><br>
Boring damned people. All over the earth. Propagating more boring damned people. What a horror show. The earth swarmed with them.

<br><br>
It's not the size of the dog in the fight, it's the size of the fight in the dog.

<br><br>
The heart has its reasons which reason knows not.

<br><br>
those who escape hell<br/>however<br/>never talk about<br/>it<br/>and nothing much<br/>bothers them<br/>after<br/>that.

<br><br>
I am glad you are here with me. Here at the end of all things, Sam.

<br><br>
The future is now. It's time to grow up and be strong. Tomorrow may well be too late.

<br><br>
When everything goes to hell, the people who stand by you without flinching -- they are your family. 

<br><br>
Appear weak when you are strong, and strong when you are weak.

<br><br>
Of all the words of mice and men, the saddest are, "It might have been.

<br><br>
When one tugs at a single thing in nature, he finds it attached to the rest of the world.

<br><br>
The only real prison is fear, and the only real freedom is freedom from fear

<br><br>
Life is not a matter of holding good cards, but of playing a poor hand well.

<br><br>
No one has ever become poor by giving.

<br><br>
Do not read as children do to enjoy themselves, or, as the ambitious do to educate themselves. No, read to live.

<br><br>
Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart.

<br><br>
the free soul is rare, but you know it when you see it - basically because you feel good, very good, when you are near or with them.

<br><br>
I am too fond of reading books to care to write them.

<br><br>
I used to dream about escaping my ordinary life, but my life was never ordinary. I had simply failed to notice how extraordinary it was.

<br><br>
Burdens are for shoulders strong enough to carry them.

<br><br>
Rare as is true love, true friendship is rarer.

<br><br>
Time is the longest distance between two places.

<br><br>
Anyone can hide.  Facing up to things, working through them, that's what makes you strong.

<br><br>
Respect other people's feelings. It might mean nothing to you, but it could mean everything to them.

<br><br>
The greatness of a man is not in how much wealth he acquires, but in his integrity and his ability to affect those around him positively

<br><br>
More smiling, less worrying. More compassion, less judgment. More blessed, less stressed. More love, less hate.

<br><br>
People have forgotten this truth," the fox said. "But you mustn’t forget it. You become responsible forever for what you’ve tamed. You’re responsible for your rose.

<br><br>
I travel not to go anywhere, but to go. I travel for travel's sake. The great affair is to move.

<br><br>
It is never too late to be wise.

<br><br>
You see I usually find myself among strangers because I drift here and there trying to forget the sad things that happened to me.

<br><br>
Let everything happen to you<br/>Beauty and terror<br/>Just keep going<br/>No feeling is final

<br><br>
When people talk, listen completely. Most people never listen.

<br><br>
There is only one good, knowledge, and one evil, ignorance.

<br><br>
Sell your cleverness and buy bewilderment.

<br><br>
Forgive, O Lord, my little jokes on Thee<br/>And I'll forgive Thy great big one on me.

<br><br>
The trouble is if you don’t spend your life yourself, other people spend it for you.

<br><br>
When you play a game of thrones you win or you die.

<br><br>
You can only become truly accomplished at something you love. Don’t make money your goal. Instead pursue the things you love doing and then do them so well that people can’t take their eyes off of you.

<br><br>
I cannot teach anybody anything. I can only make them think

<br><br>
When we are no longer able to change a situation, we are challenged to change ourselves.

<br><br>
What do we live for, if it is not to make life less difficult for each other?

<br><br>
Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.

<br><br>
Even the strongest and bravest must sometimes weep. It shows they have a great heart, one that can feel compassion for others.

<br><br>
The mind once enlightened cannot again become dark.

<br><br>
Friendship marks a life even more deeply than love. Love risks degenerating into obsession, friendship is never anything but sharing.

<br><br>
Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go.

<br><br>
It ain't what they call you, it's what you answer to.

<br><br>
People change and forget to tell each other.

<br><br>
Happiness consists in getting enough sleep.  Just that, nothing more.

<br><br>
Make your mistakes, take your chances, look silly, but keep on going.  Don’t freeze up.

<br><br>
You are not your job, you're not how much money you have in the bank. You are not the car you drive. You're not the contents of your wallet. You are not your fucking khakis. You are all singing, all dancing crap of the world.

<br><br>
Nothing in the world is more dangerous than sincere ignorance and conscientious stupidity.

<br><br>
It does not matter how slowly you go as long as you do not stop.

<br><br>
Respect was invented to cover the empty place where love should be.

<br><br>
I wonder if the snow <i>loves</i> the trees and fields, that it kisses them so gently? And then it covers them up snug, you know, with a white quilt; and perhaps it says, "Go to sleep, darlings, till the summer comes again.

<br><br>
Go on with what your heart tells you, or you will lose all.

<br><br>
Only the dead have seen the end of war.

<br><br>
We need, in love, to practice only this: letting each other go. For holding on comes easily; we do not need to learn it.

<br><br>
We are the music makers, and we are the dreamers of dreams.

<br><br>
Believe nothing you hear, and only one half that you see.

<br><br>
I cannot go to school today"<br/>Said little Peggy Ann McKay.<br/>"I have the measles and the mumps,<br/>A gash, a rash and purple bumps.<br/><br/>My mouth is wet, my throat is dry.<br/>I'm going blind in my right eye.<br/>My tonsils are as big as rocks,<br/>I've counted sixteen chicken pox.<br/><br/>And there's one more - that's seventeen,<br/>And don't you think my face looks green?<br/>My leg is cut, my eyes are blue,<br/>It might be the instamatic flu.<br/><br/>I cough and sneeze and gasp and choke,<br/>I'm sure that my left leg is broke.<br/>My hip hurts when I move my chin,<br/>My belly button's caving in.<br/><br/>My back is wrenched, my ankle's sprained,<br/>My 'pendix pains each time it rains.<br/>My toes are cold, my toes are numb,<br/><br/>I have a sliver in my thumb.<br/><br/>My neck is stiff, my voice is weak,<br/>I hardly whisper when I speak.<br/>My tongue is filling up my mouth,<br/><br/>I think my hair is falling out.<br/><br/>My elbow's bent, my spine ain't straight,<br/>My temperature is one-o-eight.<br/>My brain is shrunk, I cannot hear,<br/><br/>There's a hole inside my ear.<br/><br/>I have a hangnail, and my heart is ...<br/>What? What's that? What's that you say?<br/>You say today is .............. Saturday?<br/><br/>G'bye, I'm going out to play!

<br><br>
It's not always necessary to be strong, but to feel strong.

<br><br>
I'm sick of just liking people. I wish to God I could meet somebody I could respect.

<br><br>
A word to the wise ain't necessary, it's the stupid ones who need advice.

<br><br>
And now that you don't have to be perfect, you can be good.

<br><br>
Whatever you're meant to do, do it now. The conditions are always impossible.

<br><br>
Change will not come if we wait for some other person, or if we wait for some other time.  We are the ones we've been waiting for.  We are the change that we seek.

<br><br>
My bounty is as boundless as the sea,<br/>My love as deep; the more I give to thee,<br/>The more I have, for both are infinite.

<br><br>
Make your own Bible.  Select and collect all the words and sentences that in all your readings have been to you like the blast of a trumpet.

<br><br>
A man who procrastinates in his choosing will inevitably have his choice made for him by circumstance.

<br><br>
The ships hung in the sky in much the same way that bricks don't.

<br><br>
Kindness is a language which the deaf can hear and the blind can see.

<br><br>
Who, being loved, is poor?

<br><br>
When we least expect it, life sets us a challenge to test our courage and willingness to change; at such a moment, there is no point in pretending that nothing has happened or in saying that we are not yet ready. The challenge will not wait. Life does not look back. A week is more than enough time for us to decide whether or not to accept our destiny.

<br><br>
Just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they aren't after you.

<br><br>
Never interrupt your enemy when he is making a mistake.

<br><br>
The purpose of life is to live it, to taste experience to the utmost, to reach out eagerly and without fear for newer and richer experience.

<br><br>
It is a curious thing, Harry, but perhaps those who are best suited to power are those who have never sought it. Those who, like you, have leadership thrust upon them, and take up the mantle because they must, and find to their own surprise that they wear it well.

<br><br>
Talk sense to a fool and he calls you foolish.

<br><br>
If you hate a person, you hate something in him that is part of yourself. What isn't part of ourselves doesn't disturb us.

<br><br>
Raise your words, not voice. It is rain that grows flowers, not thunder.

<br><br>
There is no place like home.

<br><br>
You want to know about anybody? See what books they read, and how they've been read...

<br><br>
If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping with a mosquito.

<br><br>
The only way to deal with an unfree world is to become so absolutely free that your very existence is an act of rebellion.

<br><br>
Time is the coin of your life. You spend it. Do not allow others to spend it for you.

<br><br>
If you end up with a boring miserable life because you listened to your mom, your dad, your teacher, your priest, or some guy on television telling you how to do your shit, then you deserve it.

<br><br>
Lack of direction, not lack of time, is the problem. We all have twenty-four hour days.

<br><br>
Instead of worrying about what you cannot control, shift your energy to what you can create.

<br><br>
If you work really hard, and you're kind, amazing things will happen.

<br><br>
Tell me and I forget, teach me and I may remember, involve me and I learn.

<br><br>
To love oneself is the beginning of a lifelong romance.

<br><br>
Wheresoever you go, go with all your heart.

<br><br>
The more you know who you are, and what you want, the less you let things upset you.

<br><br>
People shouldn't be afraid of their government. Governments should be afraid of their people.

<br><br>
Happiness is holding someone in your arms and knowing you hold the whole world.

<br><br>
Expose yourself to your deepest fear; after that, fear has no power, and the fear of freedom shrinks and vanishes. You are free.

<br><br>
When the heart speaks, the mind finds it indecent to object.

<br><br>
Every time you are tempted to react in the same old way, ask if you want to be a prisoner of the past or a pioneer of the future.

<br><br>
Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear - not absence of fear.

<br><br>
They who can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.

<br><br>
Quotation is a serviceable substitute for wit.

<br><br>
A purpose of human life, no matter who is controlling it, is to love whoever is around to be loved.

<br><br>
If you would tell me the heart of a man, tell me not what he reads, but what he rereads.

<br><br>
Stuff your eyes with wonder, he said, live as if you'd drop dead in ten seconds. See the world. It's more fantastic than any dream made or paid for in factories.

<br><br>
Atheism turns out to be too simple. If the whole universe has no meaning, we should never have found out that it has no meaning...

<br><br>
The trouble is not in dying for a friend, but in finding a friend worth dying for.

<br><br>
You endure what is unbearable, and you bear it. That is all.

<br><br>
When you find your path, you must not be afraid. You need to have sufficient courage to make mistakes. Disappointment, defeat, and despair are the tools God uses to show us the way.

<br><br>
You shall know the truth and the truth shall make you mad.

<br><br>
Do your little bit of good where you are; it's those little bits of good put together that overwhelm the world.

<br><br>
Then the Grinch thought of something he hadn't before!  What if Christmas, he thought, doesn't come from a store. What if Christmas...perhaps...means a little bit more!

<br><br>
Tact is the ability to tell someone to go to hell in such a way that they look forward to the trip.

<br><br>
Don't compromise yourself - you're all you have.

<br><br>
Anyone whose goal is 'something higher' must expect someday to suffer vertigo. What is vertigo? Fear of falling? No, Vertigo is something other than fear of falling. It is the voice of the emptiness below us which tempts and lures us, it is the desire to fall, against which, terrified, we defend ourselves.

<br><br>
But who can say what's best? That's why you need to grab whatever chance you have of happiness where you find it, and not worry about other people too much. My experience tells me that we get no more than two or three such chances in a life time, and if we let them go, we regret it for the rest of our lives.

<br><br>
Everything has beauty, but not everyone sees it.

<br><br>
If you love what you do and are willing to do what it takes, it's within your reach. And it'll be worth every minute you spend alone at night, thinking and thinking about what it is you want to design or build. It'll be worth it, I promise.

<br><br>
You wanna fly, you got to give up the shit that weighs you down.

<br><br>
Youth is happy because it has the capacity to see beauty. Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old.

<br><br>
A truth that's told with bad intent<br/>Beats all the lies you can invent.

<br><br>
Nothing in the world is ever completely wrong. Even a stopped clock is right twice a day.

<br><br>
In a time of destruction, create something.

<br><br>
Learn to value yourself, which means: fight for your happiness.

<br><br>
No persons are more frequently wrong, than those who will not admit they are wrong.

<br><br>
It is absurd to divide people into good and bad. People are either charming or tedious.

<br><br>
Remain true to yourself, child. If you know your own heart, you will always have one friend who does not lie.

<br><br>
If there's a single lesson that life teaches us, it's that wishing doesn't make it so.

<br><br>
There was another life that I might have had, but I am having this one.

<br><br>
We do not grow absolutely, chronologically. We grow sometimes in one dimension, and not in another; unevenly. We grow partially. We are relative. We are mature in one realm, childish in another. The past, present, and future mingle and pull us backward, forward, or fix us in the present. We are made up of layers, cells, constellations.

<br><br>
So many things become beautiful when you really look.

<br><br>
The helpful thought for which you look<br/>Is written somewhere in a book.

<br><br>
What's the good of living if you don't try a few things?

<br><br>
Open your heart. Someone will come. Someone will come for you. But first you must open your heart.

<br><br>
All alone! Whether you like it or not, alone is something you'll be quite a lot!

<br><br>
Your beliefs become your thoughts, <br/>Your thoughts become your words, <br/>Your words become your actions, <br/>Your actions become your habits, <br/>Your habits become your values, <br/>Your values become your destiny.
