---
layout: post
title: Quotes 3
--- 

<br><br>
The saddest people I've ever met in life are the ones who don't care deeply about anything at all. Passion and satisfaction go hand in hand, and without them, any happiness is only temporary, because there's nothing to make it last.

<br><br>
The reasonable man adapts himself to the world: the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man.

<br><br>
Don’t try to make life a mathematics problem with yourself in the center and everything coming out equal.  When you’re good, bad things can still happen.  And if you’re bad, you can still be lucky.

<br><br>
There is more to sex appeal than just measurements. I don't need a bedroom to prove my womanliness. I can convey just as much sex appeal, picking apples off a tree or standing in the rain.

<br><br>
Trying to define yourself is like trying to bite your own teeth.

<br><br>
The world is a dangerous place to live, not because of the people who are evil, but because of the people who don't do anything about it.

<br><br>
No matter what he does, every person on earth plays a central role in the history of the world. And normally he doesn't know it.

<br><br>
A child can teach an adult three things: to be happy for no reason, to always be busy with something, and to know how to demand with all his might that which he desires.

<br><br>
Creativity is intelligence having fun.

<br><br>
These violent delights have violent ends<br/>And in their triump die, like fire and powder<br/>Which, as they kiss, consume

<br><br>
The thing that is really hard, and really amazing, is giving up on being perfect and beginning the work of becoming yourself.

<br><br>
My tongue will tell the anger of my heart, or else my heart concealing it will break.

<br><br>
It's funny how humans can wrap their mind around things and fit them into their version of reality.

<br><br>
If you don't read the newspaper, you're uninformed. If you read the newspaper, you're mis-informed.

<br><br>
Out of suffering have emerged the strongest souls; the most massive characters are seared with scars.

<br><br>
Every one of us is, in the cosmic perspective, precious. If a human disagrees with you, let him live. In a hundred billion galaxies, you will not find another.

<br><br>
The beauty of a woman is not in the clothes she wears, the figure that she carries, or the way she combs her hair. The beauty of a woman is seen in her eyes, because that is the doorway to her heart, the place where love resides. True beauty in a woman is reflected in her soul. It's the caring that she lovingly gives, the passion that she shows & the beauty of a woman only grows with passing years.

<br><br>
Youth can not know how age thinks and feels. But old men are guilty if they forget what it was to be young.

<br><br>
You yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and affection

<br><br>
Always do what is right. It will gratify half of mankind and astound the other.

<br><br>
When I had nothing to lose, I had everything. When I stopped being who I am, I found myself.

<br><br>
We take for granted the very things that most deserve our gratitude.

<br><br>
Everyone is a moon, and has a dark side which he never shows to anybody.

<br><br>
Life is a series of natural and spontaneous changes. Don't resist them; that only creates sorrow. Let reality be reality. Let things flow naturally forward in whatever way they like.

<br><br>
People demand freedom of speech as a compensation for the freedom of thought which they seldom use.

<br><br>
Don't bend; don't water it down; don't try to make it logical; don't edit your own soul according to the fashion. Rather, follow your most intense obsessions mercilessly.

<br><br>
To be, or not to be: that is the question:<br/>Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer<br/>The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,<br/>Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,<br/>And by opposing end them? To die: to sleep;<br/>No more; and by a sleep to say we end<br/>The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks<br/>That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation<br/>Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;<br/>To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;<br/>For in that sleep of death what dreams may come<br/>When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,<br/>Must give us pause: there's the respect<br/>That makes calamity of so long life;<br/>For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,<br/>The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,<br/>The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,<br/>The insolence of office and the spurns<br/>That patient merit of the unworthy takes,<br/>When he himself might his quietus make<br/>With a bare bodkin? who would fardels bear,<br/>To grunt and sweat under a weary life,<br/>But that the dread of something after death,<br/>The undiscover'd country from whose bourn<br/>No traveller returns, puzzles the will<br/>And makes us rather bear those ills we have<br/>Than fly to others that we know not of?<br/>Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;<br/>And thus the native hue of resolution<br/>Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,<br/>And enterprises of great pith and moment<br/>With this regard their currents turn awry,<br/>And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!<br/>The fair Ophelia! Nymph, in thy orisons<br/>Be all my sins remember'd!

<br><br>
When we are tired, we are attacked by ideas we conquered long ago.

<br><br>
I want to grow old without facelifts. I want to have the courage to be loyal to the face I have made.

<br><br>
Never forget what you are, for surely the world will not. Make it your strength. Then it can never be your weakness.

<br><br>
Life isn't finding shelter in the storm.  It's about learning to dance in the rain.

<br><br>
Would it save you a lot of time if I just gave up and went mad now?

<br><br>
You have to know what you stand for, not just what you stand against.

<br><br>
It's been my experience that you can nearly always enjoy things if you make up your mind firmly that you will.

<br><br>
A good traveler has no fixed plans and is not intent on arriving.

<br><br>
Yesterday is gone. Tomorrow has not yet come. We have only today. Let us begin.

<br><br>
When people don't express themselves, they die one piece at a time.

<br><br>
A good book is an event in my life.

<br><br>
Worry never robs tomorrow of its sorrow, but only saps today of its strength.

<br><br>
Love is the absence of judgment.

<br><br>
Let us learn to show our friendship for a man when he is alive and not after he is dead.

<br><br>
We can never judge the lives of others, because each person knows only their own pain and renunciation. It's one thing to feel that you are on the right path, but it's another to think that yours is the only path.

<br><br>
The most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or touched, they are felt with the heart.

<br><br>
A dream you dream alone is only a dream. A dream you dream together is reality.

<br><br>
The best books... are those that tell you what you know already.

<br><br>
I was wise enough never to grow up, while fooling people into believing I had.

<br><br>
If you want to be happy, do not dwell in the past, do not worry about the future, focus on living fully in the present.

<br><br>
You should never be surprised when someone treats you with respect, you should expect it.

<br><br>
Is it so bad, then, to be misunderstood? Pythagoras was misunderstood, and Socrates, and Jesus, and Luther, and Copernicus, and Galileo, and Newton, and every pure and wise spirit that ever took flesh. To be great is to be misunderstood.

<br><br>
I think the reward for conformity is that everyone likes you except yourself.

<br><br>
There ain't no sin and there ain't no virtue. There's just stuff people do.

<br><br>
The worst part of success is trying to find someone who is happy for you.

<br><br>
Ah! There is nothing like staying at home, for real comfort.

<br><br>
You only get one life. It's actually your duty to live it as fully as possible.

<br><br>
Lighthouses don’t go running all over an island looking for boats to save; they just stand there shining.

<br><br>
Some lose all mind and become soul,insane.<br/>some lose all soul and become mind, intellectual.<br/>some lose both and become accepted

<br><br>
A common mistake that people make when trying to design something completely foolproof is to underestimate the ingenuity of complete fools.

<br><br>
Knowledge speaks, but wisdom listens

<br><br>
The creative adult is the child who has survived.

<br><br>
Art and love are the same thing: It’s the process of seeing yourself in things that are not you.

<br><br>
A woman without a man  is like a fish without a bicycle.

<br><br>
Beauty is only skin deep, but ugly goes clean to the bone.

<br><br>
But in the end one needs more courage to live than to kill himself.

<br><br>
Books are the carriers of civilization...They are companions, teachers, magicians, bankers of the treasures of the mind. Books are humanity in print.

<br><br>
Keep smiling, because life is a beautiful thing and there's so much to smile about.

<br><br>
Do not go gentle into that good night.<br/>Rage, rage against the dying of the light.

<br><br>
Success makes so many people hate you. I wish it wasn't that way. It would be wonderful to enjoy success without seeing envy in the eyes of those around you.

<br><br>
There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.

<br><br>
You're alive only once, as far as we know, and what could be worse than getting to the end of your life and realizing you hadn't lived it?

<br><br>
Don't Gain The World & Lose Your Soul, Wisdom Is Better Than Silver Or Gold.

<br><br>
Hello babies. Welcome to Earth. It's hot in the summer and cold in the winter. It's round and wet and crowded. On the outside, babies, you've got a hundred years here. There's only one rule that I know of, babies-"God damn it, you've got to be kind.

<br><br>
If things start happening, don't worry, don't stew, just go right along and you'll start happening too.

<br><br>
Today was good. Today was fun. Tomorrow is another one.

<br><br>
I've found that there is always some beauty left -- in nature, sunshine, freedom, in yourself; these can all help you.

<br><br>
Cowards die many times before their deaths; <br/>The valiant never taste of death but once. <br/>Of all the wonders that I yet have heard, <br/>It seems to me most strange that men should fear; <br/>Seeing that death, a necessary end, <br/>Will come when it will come.

<br><br>
What you do makes a difference, and you have to decide what kind of difference you want to make.

<br><br>
Was it hard?" I ask.<br/>Letting go?"<br/><br/>Not as hard as holding on to something that wasn't real.

<br><br>
The capacity for friendship is God's way of apologizing for our families.

<br><br>
There are years that ask questions and years that answer.

<br><br>
Words are pale shadows of forgotten names. As names have power, words have power. Words can light fires in the minds of men. Words can wring tears from the hardest hearts.

<br><br>
If you treat an individual as he is, he will remain how he is. But if you treat him as if he were what he ought to be and could be, he will become what he ought to be and could be.

<br><br>
It's discouraging to think how many people are shocked by honesty and how few by deceit.

<br><br>
Three may keep a secret, if two of them are dead.

<br><br>
you can, you should, and if you’re brave enough to start, you will.

<br><br>
Great minds are always feared by lesser minds.

<br><br>
If you pick up a starving dog and make him prosperous he will not bite you. This is the principal difference between a dog and man.

<br><br>
If I'd observed all the rules I'd never have got anywhere.

<br><br>
Even if you are on the right track, you’ll get run over if you just sit there.

<br><br>
Travel is fatal to prejudice, bigotry, and narrow-mindedness, and many of our people need it sorely on these accounts. Broad, wholesome, charitable views of men and things cannot be acquired by vegetating in one little corner of the earth all one's lifetime.

<br><br>
Letting go means to come to the realization that some people are a part of your history, but not a part of your destiny.

<br><br>
A learning experience is one of those things that says, 'You know that thing you just did? Don't do that.

<br><br>
I wasn't actually in love, but I felt a sort of tender curiosity.

<br><br>
The best portion of a good man's life: his little, nameless unremembered acts of kindness and love.

<br><br>
If you do not tell the truth about yourself you cannot tell it about other people.

<br><br>
If you're lonely when you're alone, you're in bad company.

<br><br>
The most common way people give up their power is by thinking they don't have any.

<br><br>
The function of prayer is not to influence God, but rather to change the nature of the one who prays.

<br><br>
An expert is a person who has made all the mistakes that can be made in a very narrow field.

<br><br>
You never know what worse luck your bad luck has saved you from.

<br><br>
That it will never come again is what makes life so sweet.

<br><br>
What you do speaks so loudly that I cannot hear what you say.

<br><br>
Happiness [is] only real when shared

<br><br>
The measure of intelligence is the ability to change.

<br><br>
A ship is safe in harbor, but that's not what ships are for.

<br><br>
We can easily forgive a child who is afraid of the dark; the real tragedy of life is when men are afraid of the light.

<br><br>
Don't feel sorry for yourself. Only assholes do that.

<br><br>
Nowadays people know the price of everything and the value of nothing.

<br><br>
Education is the ability to listen to almost anything without losing your temper or your self-confidence.

<br><br>
Reading furnishes the mind only with materials of knowledge; it is thinking that makes what we read ours.

<br><br>
I'm not young enough to know everything.

<br><br>
There are three rules for writing a novel. Unfortunately, no one knows what they are.

<br><br>
Books say: She did this because. Life says: She did this. Books are where things are explained to you; life is where things aren't. I'm not surprised some people prefer books.

<br><br>
Sometimes,' said Pooh, 'the smallest things take up the most room in your heart.

<br><br>
If you want to tell people the truth, make them laugh, otherwise they'll kill you.

<br><br>
Clothes make the man. Naked people have little or no influence on society.

<br><br>
It is the time you have wasted for your rose that makes your rose so important.

<br><br>
I regret that it takes a life to learn how to live.

<br><br>
In politics, If you want anything said, ask a man. If you want anything done, ask a woman.

<br><br>
There is no mistaking a real book when one meets it. It is like falling in love.

<br><br>
You need to learn how to select your thoughts just the same way you select your clothes every day.  This is a power you can cultivate.  If you want to control things in your life so bad, work on the mind.  That's the only thing you should be trying to control.

<br><br>
Success is getting what you want, happiness is wanting what you get

<br><br>
When I discover who I am, I’ll be free.

<br><br>
We are just an advanced breed of monkeys on a minor planet of a very average star. But we can understand the Universe. That makes us something very special.

<br><br>
I can shake off everything as I write; my sorrows disappear, my courage is reborn.

<br><br>
Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one's courage.

<br><br>
Someday, somewhere - anywhere, unfailingly, you'll find yourself, and that, and only that, can be the happiest or bitterest hour of your life.

<br><br>
So many things are possible just as long as you don't know they're impossible.

<br><br>
The individual has always had to struggle to keep from being overwhelmed by the tribe. If you try it, you will be lonely often, and sometimes frightened. But no price is too high to pay for the privilege of owning yourself.

<br><br>
Maybe ever’body in the whole damn world is scared of each other.

<br><br>
War must be, while we defend our lives against a destroyer who would devour all; but I do not love the bright sword for its sharpness, nor the arrow for its swiftness, nor the warrior for his glory. I love only that which they defend.

<br><br>
You were born with wings, why prefer to crawl through life?

<br><br>
You must make a decision that you are going to move on. It wont happen automatically. You will have to rise up and say, ‘I don’t care how hard this is, I don’t care how disappointed I am, I’m not going to let this get the best of me. I’m moving on with my life.

<br><br>
You have power over your mind - not outside events. Realize this, and you will find strength.

<br><br>
You're not to be so blind with patriotism that you can't face reality. Wrong is wrong, no matter who does it or says it.

<br><br>
Time is a drug.  Too much of it kills you.

<br><br>
He who has a why to live for can bear almost any how.

<br><br>
If I got rid of my demons, I’d lose my angels.

<br><br>
I realize now that dying is easy. Living is hard.

<br><br>
Three Rings for the Elven-kings under the sky,<br/> Seven for the Dwarf-lords in their halls of stone,<br/>Nine for Mortal Men, doomed to die,<br/> One for the Dark Lord on his dark throne<br/>In the Land of Mordor where the Shadows lie.<br/> One Ring to rule them all, One Ring to find them,<br/> One Ring to bring them all and in the darkness bind them.<br/>In the Land of Mordor where the Shadows lie.

<br><br>
Words are easy, like the wind; Faithful friends are hard to find.

<br><br>
Don't part with your illusions. When they are gone you may still exist, but you have ceased to live.

<br><br>
Why are women... so much more interesting to men than men are to women?

<br><br>
Don't be afraid of death; be afraid of an unlived life. You don't have to live forever, you just have to live.

<br><br>
The first draft of anything is shit.

<br><br>
What makes the desert beautiful,' said the little prince, 'is that somewhere it hides a well...

<br><br>
You couldn't relive your life, skipping the awful parts, without losing what made it worthwhile.  You had to accept it as a whole--like the world, or the person you loved.

<br><br>
What and how much had I lost by trying to do only what was expected of me instead of what I myself had wished to do?

<br><br>
Everybody talks about wanting to change things and help and fix, but ultimately all you can do is fix yourself. And that's a lot. Because if you can fix yourself, it has a ripple effect.

<br><br>
The bravest people are the ones who don’t mind looking like cowards.

<br><br>
Do you wish me a good morning, or mean that it is a good morning whether I want it or not; or that you feel good this morning; or that it is a morning to be good on?

<br><br>
Every generation imagines itself to be more intelligent than the one that went before it, and wiser than the one that comes after it.

<br><br>
Atticus told me to delete the adjectives and I'd have the facts.

<br><br>
If we wait for the moment when everything, absolutely everything is ready, we shall never begin.

<br><br>
Live in the present, remember the past, and fear not the future, for it doesn't exist and never shall. There is only now.

<br><br>
A cynic is a man who knows the price of everything, and the value of nothing.

<br><br>
Everyone you will ever meet knows something you don't.

<br><br>
All your life, you will be faced with a choice. You can choose love or hate…I choose love.

<br><br>
You will do foolish things, but do them with enthusiasm.

<br><br>
There is not always a good guy. Nor is there always a bad one. Most people are somewhere in between.

<br><br>
Reality is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn't go away.

<br><br>
I don't want to be at the mercy of my emotions. I want to use them, to enjoy them, and to dominate them.

<br><br>
