---
layout: post
title: On People  
tags: people
category: ideas 
---

Everyone is the center of their own world. 
People are primarily interested in themselves. 
They want to feel important. They need to be heard. 
Recognition and appreciation are basic needs. 
Make people feel important. 
Pause before you answer them. 
Acknowledge people waiting you. 
attention to everyone in a group.  

Reciprocity is central. 

Put sunshine get sunshine. 
Put storm get blizzard. 

Negativity is toxic. Emotions are contagious. Open, positive, happy or anxious, angry, negative. 
Give good vibes, show enthusiasm 

People will never forget how you made them feel.

Anger burns you first

Trust is the most delicate thing. Be impeccable with your word.

Respect yourself, be proud of yourself, and your situation in life. 

Don't think or judge, just listen. Social skills naturally arise from genuine empathy 

Be kind, not clever

Arrogance is a weakness. Confident people are humble. You don't have to prove anything.  You don’t need to pretend to be more than you are. 

Give support, not advice

Vulnerability is not insecurity, it takes courage and confidence. Admitting mistakes is endearing 

People see what they look for, and hear what they listen for.

Accept people as they are. They don't want to hear the truth. They hear what they want to hear anyway 

Handle fighters by refusing to fight. 

---

Don't assume they like what you like, or want what you want. Find out what they are after so you can speak on what they are interested in. 

Understand people's unstated motivations

Go down the detail by feedback. 

Use stories, witnesses, analogies, quotes, simple stats. 

Don't change subjects abruptly. Don't interrupt. Ask open ended questions.

Say only if you know it and believe it. Say something good or say nothing 

Words are just words. Pay attention to actions.  

Tell when you agree, be friendly and respectful when you disagree

Don't make assumptions. We are terrible at mind-reading. 

Don't take anything personally.

The poorest way is arguing, instead, ask specific questions, ask them to explain their idea. Simply give guidance and let them reach the conclusion themselves. Criticism shuts down people, keep your cool and ask questions instead. 

Saying exactly what’s on your mind isn’t a virtue.

**simple words with big effects**

No, thank you

I’m sorry, that was my fault

I don’t understand

Can you help me?


tag questions are effective 

Isn’t it?

Aren’t you?

Couldn’t we?

Don’t you think?


politely assert yourself,

 I feel, I think, I believe, I don't think, I don't know, I know 

---

Praise the good instead of complaining. Never use praise for manipulation. 

Criticism must be in absolute privacy. If you tell the wrong way, tell the right way, too

Both praise and criticm must be specific and for the action not the person.

Neither chase praise nor take criticism personally. 

---

People will often think they understand, and they’ll say they understand, but then their actions show that it just ain’t so.


If you hate a person, you hate something in him that is part of yourself. What isn't part of ourselves doesn't disturb us. Everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an understanding of ourselves. Let no man pull you so low as to hate him.

Respect other people's feelings. It might mean nothing to you, but it could mean everything to them.

People will never forget how you made them feel.

People change and forget to tell each other.

Don't waste your time with explanations: people only hear what they want to hear.

Just ignore everything they say and only pay attention to what they do.

If a human disagrees with you, let him live. In a hundred billion galaxies, you will not find another.

Raise your words, not your voice. Rain, not thunder.

In individuals, insanity is rare; but in groups, parties, nations and epochs, it is the rule.

Everything can be taken from a man but one thing: the last of the human freedoms—to choose one’s attitude in any given set of circumstances, to choose one’s own way.

They who can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.