---
layout: post
title: Romance and Relationships
tags: people
category: psychology
---


the way to be happy in a relationship is to be happy in solitude

if you are not happy with yourself, you won't be happy in a relationship

keep your integrity at all costs 

## be real

don't try to impress, be authentic

Your attitude determines your attractiveness.

## you can't force love

When someone loves you, they won’t leave so don’t be too sad over a breakup

if you love, don't let them go

you can't force love

Do not chase love, affection, or attention. If it isn't given heartily by another person, it isn't worth having.

## time and distance

neediness repels

The very essence of flirting is uncertainty

set them free

## respect

treat people with respect

people are not vending machines 

## confidence

face your fears, this builds genuine confidence

be humble 

think before you speak 

speak clearly

Clean. Direct. Healthy. Set the tone for the kind of relationship you want to have.

## show a genuine interest

Learn their personality, history, mental models, family, dreams, values, don't fill the gaps with your imagination 

## Danger

Filling gaps with imagination is very dangerous 

## be reliable 

Do not promise, and keep your promises

Focus on watering the grass on your side 

## Be proactive, You have nothing to lose

You: “I like you. Do you want to go out sometime?”

Girl: “No, thanks.”

Result = you are not dating.


You: … (say nothing)

Girl: … (doesn’t notice you)

Result = you are not dating.


## on adultery 

All you love and wanted is sacrificed for a few orgasms with a woman you did not even love.

Don’t make this mistake because the consequences are life long and affecting your loved ones as well. 

## Divorce

from a quora answer -> Divorce happened because I married a person who was in effect a stranger and every bit I did not know about him I filled in with my imagination.

## choose wisely

you = your spouse 

your partner is half of your life. they affect your work, friends, social status, interests, ..

marry not only someone you love but also someone who is loving you, too. 

choose him/her wisely 
